 how covid-19 is impacting payment preferences? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search homedata sciencebig datahow covid-19 is impacting payment preferences? big datablackcofferwhat we think how covid-19 is impacting payment preferences? by ajay bidyarthy june 22, 2020 0 16837 share facebooktwitterpinterestwhatsapp i would rather pay cash – before covid-19. i would rather make online payment – after lockdown. during this lockdown, one can observe a number of small positive changes in our surroundings. one such positive change is using online mode of payment even if they are small in amount as it counts as a big step towards digital india and self-development as well. according to economic times, 42% of indians say that they have started using online mode of payment. some small tasks like mobile phone recharge, bill payments, buying groceries, etc., are some essential tasks that cannot be ignored, and making an online payment is way too convenient for them. also, multiple schemes have been initiated by the government to promote online payments like lucky grahak yojana and digi dhan vyapari yojana. the details of the same are as follows: lucky garhak yojana a daily reward of rs 1000 to be given to 15,000 lucky consumers for a period of 100 days.people who use the online mode of payments will get weekly prizes worth rs 1 lakh, rs 10,000 and rs 5,000. (all types of online transactions will be included in this.) digi dhan vyapari prizes for merchants for all digital transactions.rs 50,000, rs 5,000, and rs 2,500 will be provided weekly. the frequently used apps by the consumers and the market share of apps are as follows: paytm- 33% google pay- 14% phonepe- 4% amazon pay- 10% bhim- 6% other apps- 33% not only the sellers but also the buyers have taken a step forward in making online payments and have been exploring the various offers and discounts. the sellers have started their own online shops and made online payment mandatory in highly contaminated zones. the buyer has also taken advantage of home deliveries to follow social distancing. to add to the advantage of buyers and sellers kyc is no more a necessity to make money transfers. there has been an increase in the services provided by banking sectors as well. the fm nirmala sitharaman has provided the directions to not charge for cash withdrawals from atm’s. various services like sending and receiving money, blocking cards, credit card payments, credit card pins, etc., are being provided online. e-payment options like paytm, etc., have been open up for investing money online in stocks, insurance, etc. even online shopping apps like amazon have come up with various offers for their in-built wallets. emerging technologies and high competition among online payment apps are providing benefits to buyers and sellers as well. sellers have been able to increase their reach with online shops and online payment stands as a guarantee for them. buyers have been in the most advantageous position ever after the digital payment has come into the market. they are being provided with a number of choices to choose from as well as make instant payments for offers. this all sums up the likeliness of digital payment in the market. so yes, we can say, you (digital payment) have a brillant future, child! we all have heard this statement “precaution is better than cure” and here is the time to follow the same. it has been proven as a fact that the coronavirus can persist on paper for four or five days. that means the coronavirus can persist on the paper currency for four or five days. thus, it is important to avoid the usage of paper currency. a revolution will take place only when the below poverty population of india will start using the online mode of payment and will be literate enough to not get caught in any scam. blackcoffer insights 18: himanshi kalota, shri ram college of commerce (delhi) share facebooktwitterpinterestwhatsapp previous articlecontribution of handicrafts (visual arts & literature) in the indian economynext articleimpact of covid-19 pandemic on tourism & aviation industries ajay bidyarthy related articles what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 most popular ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 load more recent comments chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement - ai+ news on chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement - blackcoffer insights on marketing analytics solution, a big data approach latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 