 telemedicine - what patients like and dislike about it | blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think what patients like and dislike about telemedicine? blackcofferwhat we thinkfutureprediction what patients like and dislike about telemedicine? by ajay bidyarthy - january 13, 2021 17600 in today’s world, telemedicine technology is one of those technologies which has brought about a change. compared to the early days there have been remarkable differences in the methods of consultation with a doctor. in the years that have passed by, consultation for a disease with a doctor was quite hectic. it involved waiting, traveling, etc. but with the advent of telemedicine opportunities, this has completely changed. it is a rural area that has been completely blessed with the invention of telemedicine. today a considerable amount of people are able to consult doctors remotely. not just doctors, but specialists in various fields of medicine. this has been of great importance as far as rural people are concerned. there are a lot of telemedicine tools that have been found. there are a lot of areas like ophthalmology, oncology, dermatology, etc where the facility of telemedicine has been practiced. most of the patients are truly benefitting from telemedicine. patients are pretty satisfied with the consultation they are getting. they don’t have to travel now. they can consult doctors and other specialists from remote areas. the cost of consultation has become pretty much affordable. moreover, they get exposed to highly efficient and qualified experts in the field of medicine. on the other hand, there can be patients who do not fully get satisfied through a virtual consultation. rather they might feel that they need to have a direct talk with the doctor, which can boost up their confidence and also it helps to maintain a better relationship with the doctor and patient. the patients feel trust when they talk to doctors face to face. moreover, doctors also might be able to console their patients when they have direct interaction with their patients. there could also be patients who doubt if these virtual methodologies are really trusted worthy or not. it is so because, while the patients have direct contact with their patients, the qualifications are visible to the patients. so there shall be no question of distrust. there are major challenges like better connectivity of the internet, without which the patients will not be able to have continuous interaction with the doctors. technical glitches may hinder the consultation too. moreover, emergency situations cannot be addressed beyond a limit through telemedicine. blackcoffer insights 23: miriam sam, scms school of technology and management. tags# patients# specialist# telemedicine technology# telemedicine tools#consultation#doctors#virtual previous articlehow we forecast future technologies?next articleimpact of ai in health and medicine ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights ai-driven data analysis ai tool using langchain for a leading real... march 12, 2024 realtime kibana dashboard for a financial tech firm august 8, 2023 impacts of covid 19 on food products november 6, 2021 data science – create tailored algorithms june 14, 2019 load more recommended insights what is the limitation of e-learning classes? a leading musical instrumental, website seo & optimization what is data exfiltration? auctions data automation, collection, etl, and management latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 