 how machines, ai, automations, and robo-human are effective in finance and banking? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how machines, ai, automations, and robo-human are effective in finance and banking? data scienceanalyticsartificial intelligencebig datawhat we think how machines, ai, automations, and robo-human are effective in finance and banking? by ajay bidyarthy - may 29, 2021 17796 we all hear day in and day out that we amidst a technological revolution. but do we know what this really means? before we understand how its going to impact us, let us first discuss what these terms really mean. a technological revolution simply means that we are in a period where better and newer technologies replace the others to get the job done faster and better. we are in an era with rapid innovations where machines are being compared to humans. fig: technological revolution so, then what is machine learning? machine learning is basically the application of artificial intelligence into electronic systems to enable them to learn and enhance themselves without being programmed by humans. it is the evolution and development of computer programs that can access data and then use it to advance themselves. whether you know it or not, you use machine learning-powered applications daily. now, what is artificial intelligence? at its simplest form, artificial intelligence is a field, which combines computer science and robust datasets, to enable problem-solving. in simple words, artificial intelligence is the technology that facilitates these machines to perform human like behaviour. just like every other industry, machine learning is playing its role in the finance and banking industry too. in most cases where a human would perform the same task by performing the same calculations or following the same process can be taught to the machine which can now perform it by itself. let us discuss a few examples of the applications that we might have come in our day to day running which are a result of machine learning in this industry: portfolio managementrisk underwritingalgorithmic tradingfraud detectionprocess automationcustomer onboardingcustomer churndecision makingprocess automation portfolio management in earlier days, an investor would need to consult a financial advisor to understand his/her risk appetite and advise accordingly. today, using machine learning algorithms there exists the concept of a “robo-advisor” that requires any user to give certain inputs about their financial status and goals and calculates their risk tolerance and constructs and idle portfolio allocation for them. young users today find this extremely useful rather than physically visiting an advisor and paying a fee for doing so. risk underwriting underwriting is one of the core functions for most financial institutions especially banks and insurance companies where they are required to underwrite the risk of the customers before loaning out money or insurance policies. these underwriting activities are based on trends and thumb rules industrywide. the same has been introduced through machine learning which is able to underwrite risks today on a larger and more accurate scale. algorithmic trading machine learning is a mathematical model that tracks market information, analyses massive data sources and study market conditions simultaneously to detect patterns which can be used for trading. this is humanly impossible to do in a fraction of time. algorithmic systems can make millions of trades daily, often known as “high-frequency trading”. it is highly believed that deep learning is playing its role in calibrating real-time trading decisions. fraud detection with the increase in use and dependency on computers for financial transactions came the data security risk. there is an ample amount of valuable data stored online available to create potential risk. machine learning thus helped in fraud detection by detecting anomalies in transactions and flagging them for scrutiny based on the risk factors defined by the institutions. fraud identification in insurance claims, credit card payments, identity theft, account theft, are all areas in fraud detection that machine learning can help in. process automation process automation is one of the most common applications of machine learning in finance. the technology has helped in replacing manual work, automate repetitive tasks to avoid redundancy, and as a result, increase productivity. machine learning has benefitted these organizations to optimize costs, improve customer experiences, and scale up their services. some examples of financial and banking firms using process automation are the use of chatbots, automated calls, paperwork automation, and gamified employee training. customer onboarding in this highly competitive industry, customer acquisition and the customer onboarding process is highly relevant in building a good customer relationship. at any stage, during the onboarding, a slight inconvenience or delay can act as a barrier. machine learning-enabled complete automation in this process for these financial and banking institutions. today, from opening an account, filing for any application can be completed within a few minutes with utmost ease. with ai, customers’ behavioral patterns have been studied to improvise and make the whole process efficient and user-friendly. customer churn with the multitude of offerings and availability of a plethora of options, customer stickiness is a big problem faced by financial firms. customer churn forecasting is one of the best big data use cases. it helps in detecting customers who cancel their subscription and analyses the same to tailor products as per customer needs. video streaming application, netflix’s subscribers worldwide has continued to grow to reach 167 million through using machine learning analytics on their customer database. decision making financial and banking institutions function on facilitating investments made by their customers. organizations are constantly in search of customers from whom they can get more revenue. this is now possible through performing machine learning analysis on both structured and unstructured data which helps them make more informed decisions. it also analyses data from the website and mobile application to construct effective marketing campaigns for the targeted customers. future of machine learning in finance financial monitoring, security analysis, prevention of money laundering, network security, investment predictions, personalization of customer service everything comes under the realm of the applications of machine learning in the financial and banking industry. yet, this is just the tip of the iceberg, there is a lot more that is going to change in the future. it is now visibly imperative that while ai is beginning to create a wave of transformation across these industries and adapting to these changes s important for one’s survival. with smart technology applied everywhere, all financial firms are bound to turn into fintech’s to stay relevant to the “silver tech generation” consisting of millennials and the genzs. final thoughts the financial services industry has entered the space of artificial intelligence and machine learning, and the pace is not surprising knowing the positive changes it has brought. machine learning has the most use cases in finance than any other industry because of the available computer power and new machine learning tools. the greatest applications include simplifying customer engagement and accurate sales forecasting. it is only making this industry better and more efficient with each new adaptation. machine learning algorithms have the capability to deal with a lot more than human capacity along with eliminating human error. as even the algorithms are constantly learning and innovating, they can serve as a bridge to a completely flawless automated financial system in the future. nonetheless, the challenges of high cost and lack of resources that come along play a significant role in how early these firms can adopt these technologies. but even then, the future seems bright as the industry has enough adopters and prospects ready to explore. blackcoffer insights 28: tanisha gupta, xlri tagsaibankdeep learningfinancemachine learningrobotics previous articlehow robo human will impact the future?next articlehow to protect future data and its privacy? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights human rights outlook july 1, 2020 rise of telemedicine and its impact on livelihood by 2040 january 2, 2023 an outlook of healthcare by the year 2040, and how it... august 20, 2022 ocr – extracting information from scanned documents april 18, 2020 load more recommended insights analyze fraudulent call data with stream analytics and visualize results in... ai dashboard of health fitness – in-depth look construction accounts payable / payroll analytics in power bi a web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 