 due to the covid-19 the repercussion of the environment - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think due to the covid-19 the repercussion of the environment blackcofferwhat we thinkhealthcare due to the covid-19 the repercussion of the environment by ajay bidyarthy - june 18, 2020 16527 epidemics, in general, have both direct and indirect costs associated with direct and indirect measures adopted to counter (control) the epidemic which generally have both short-run and long-run economic and social consequences. the 2019 coronavirus (covid-19) outbreak globally lead a significant setback to the entire globe. the first case was detected on 26th december 2019 in china. the world health organization (who) prepared the first diagnostic kit on 14th january 2020. as the global coronavirus or covid-19 pandemic continues to take hold every economy is feeling it’s effect with a high degree of uncertainty taking a toll in all the manufacturing sectors. supply chain management is an important area with many opportunities for our community to contribute in various forms. according to the data produced by supply management’s report on business show that pmi (purchasing manager’s index) has declined 1% in the month of february. mainly there has been a huge contraction in the petroleum, transportation and textile industries. although there has been a fall in the inventory but is expected to grow due to supply chain disruptions leading to inefficiencies in material conversion and continued advanced stocking to protect production schedules. a analysis by trading platform forex claimed that heavily 75% of all companies had already reported supply chain disruptions with more than 80% believing that at some point they would experience impacts as a result of covid-19 disruptions. the effective shutdown of industrial activity i.e. china, ground zero for the virus presented particularly difficult problems for manufacturing firms worldwide. imported goods invested by investors set a significant setback. several experiments were carried out by different governments across the globe to restrict the spread of this pandemic. boris johnson introduced the herd immunity plan in the united kingdom which was a failure followed by a mitigate model which india also tried initially to stop the spread of the covid-19 virus. the last and the ultimate model that most of the countries are applying is the hammer and the dance model i.e. the lockdown model which is estimated to bring down the caseload by 25-30%. the lockdown model basically means buying time to prepare the vaccine to kill the virus. however, the lockdown has certain critical economic consequences which add to the burden of global distress. this can be explained using the standard macroeconomic keynesian model. the lockdown and the spread of the disease have a direct negative shock on aggregate consumption levels and exports. this leads to a contraction in aggregate demand which leads to a fall in the market rate of interest and aggregate equilibrium output. the secondary effect on the commodity market is via investment demand function which can either increase owing to a fall in the market rate of interest, or fall owing to the contraction in aggregate demand. clearly, the contraction of the aggregate demand-side generates an economic slowdown. on the other hand, restriction of workers gathering in the workplace owing to lockdown hurts the production in those sectors which need the presence of physical workers. note that software or financial service-producing sectors are exempted from such negative supply shock at least in the short-run to medium-run since those works could be easily carried out based on “work from home” anthem. however, reverse migration of workers is an indication of a sharp cut down in production activities. this aggregate supply shock leads to the situation of stagflation. in recent announcements by the reserve bank of india (rbi) to ease liquidity in the system may prove to be counterproductive provided the aggregate supply shock, since the escalation of demand specifically for non-traded products without an adequate increase in production (supply) would only result in inflation. in other words, supply-side management must go hand in hand with demand-side policies. even if policies are undertaken at the national level by the government, however, conditions may not improve much due to shocks in the external sector through trade in commodities. most imports are banned which will increase the economic cost of production of import substitutes within the domestic territory based on the theory of comparative advantage in a ricardian sense. at the same time, exports are hurt due to lower demand from the developed economies. this shows that unemployment and inflation are inevitable in the near future. corona virus has mainly affected raw material export-driven countries. with the covid-19 virus in the backdrop there will be a decline in new orders, production, and employment with ease in supplier deliveries as demand will be less with a mild decline in the inventories. there has been a huge revenue impact. long stretches of empty supermarket shelves and shortage of essential commodities are only the visible impacts to consumers of the global chain disruption caused by the covid-19 pandemic. the uncertainties ahead swing between extremes. as the shortages worsen before they get resolved prices of many commodities could go up for consumers even if laws exist against price gouging. at the same time we should keep in mind that constrained supplies could cause a decline in demand which in turn may end up weakening prices. risk management process is not robust enough to cope with the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. the seemingly relentless forces of globalization and technology with coronavirus in the backdrop will present us with new supply chain challenges and opportunities for further progress in the near future. there is a glimmer of good news as countries globally haven taken preventive measures but the recovery may be fragile. the crisis due to the global pandemic is likely to be more serious for developing economies compared to the global financial crisis of 2008. this is due to the fact that the global financial crisis leads to lower demand for exports from the developing economies by the developed nations which further lead to contraction of export-based industries and other sectors in the developing nations due to inter-sectoral backward and forward linkage effect, however, the burden of retrenchments in the formal sector was absorbed in the informal sector. in the present situation, the problem of vanishing informal sector is evident since informal sector workers are more vulnerable to the spread of the disease due to the absence of non-regulatory authority and out of direct government control. moreover, lockdown lead to massive close down of this informal units, thus the informal sector in this present set up is vanishing due to which the shock absorption capacity of developing economy like india is becoming weaker. the global economy is drowning towards deep cycles of economic depression and the aftershocks seem to be long-lasting. the only way of this global shock seems to be international policy coordination in line with the needs of the domestic economies blackcoffer insights 18: anusil das, st.xavier's university previous articlewhat is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19 pandemic situation?next articleimpact of covid-19 pandemic on office space and co-working industries. ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights rising it cities will impact the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city... october 17, 2022 what are the challenges, and acceptance of e-learning during the covid-19... december 7, 2021 kpi dashboard for accountants july 21, 2023 impact of newly discovered coronavirus on the global economy april 12, 2020 load more recommended insights the prospective recipe of success in the age of analytics integrating and deriving insights from the cost of equity role of big data & analytics in banking and finance off-page seo latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 