 estimating the impact of covid-19 on the world of work - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think estimating the impact of covid-19 on the world of work blackcofferwhat we thinkhealthcare estimating the impact of covid-19 on the world of work by ajay bidyarthy - may 1, 2020 16618 covid-19 an unprecedented pandemic for us but a “can-be” possibility for great leaders such as bill gates came into action since the rising of the year 2020. the corollary of this pandemic is so prodigious that the analysis by the un department of economic and social affairs (desa) stated that the covid-19 pandemic is disrupting global supply chains and international trade which in turn could shrink the global economy by up to 1 percent in 2020, a reversal from the previous forecast of 2.5 percent growth. more than 6.6 million americans filed unemployment claims and the economic downturn is expected to be the worst recession since the great depression as stated by the imf. india is facing its biggest crisis in decades, with a three-week lockdown initially, but extending further in a nation of 1.3 billion people likely to result in an economic recession, millions of job losses and possible starvation among the poor. it can be said that economic contagion is now spreading as fast as the disease itself. on the contrary nature has pressed the reset button, the environment is having a noticeable benefit from this scenario. water is getting clearer, the air is turning breathable and various such news and pictures can be easily heard and seen on newspapers, telly, and social media platforms on day to day basis. but this is the storyline of the present, what about the future? are the predictions made by financial institutions and thought leaders going to be true? or something unexpected is going to happen that will make us think of our human capabilities again? after this storm of covid-19, it would not be a surprise to see how digitally every business will grow to provide better digital infrastructure and customer experience along with advancement in technology which we are lacking in this present scenario. the touch screens that we are using already will find its vast applications and would be seen in most of the places including hotels, hostels, and shopping malls. all those processes which are interdependent will take an agile turn resulting in better productivity of goods, having a systematic backup giving a better experience to the consumer even in hard situations. the major focus would be making contactless systems hence artificial intelligence and machine learning will become the most rapid and in-demand fields. not only this, but the medical infrastructure and services will also take a boost in the race of developing the systems to handle any situation afterward. the human to machine interaction will increase facilitating fast production, delivery and surveillance inculcating many more. in each and every area the covid will leave its mark may it be retail sector or may it be the banking sector making them modify or fully change their architectures. even the existing systems would be gifted with some modifications, ensuring them to work in a hard environment even with or without human intervention. the companies will rethink their policies shaping themselves accordingly to manage the resources ensuring safety, agility, and work to be a top priority. the work from home idea will also provide a base for bigger companies ensuring to develop a better infrastructure for their resources and probably giving birth to a new concept of work culture. various existing industries related to either delivery or travel may adopt the new idea of collaboration with other industries which will result in more options for consumers on their old routine apps. new businesses will root out from the existing ventures resulting in head to head competition in the business world but turning into a brownie point for consumer experience and bandwidth of choices. start-up culture will go hand in hand and expected to take a stupendous growth in the race of providing us a legitimate opportunity to use and feel the real digital world. the various innovations will now take a pace in each field and maybe we will hear some new jargons related to tech in upcoming years. since the global economy has fumbled, countries will now try to take a different turn to vamoose out of this phase. they will try to make new connections by nurturing a give and take relationship and several business relationships would take an unexpected move making the position of several countries sliding up and down on indexes. even rival countries may join their hands in this hard time rather than being dismissed totally under predator countries. it would be surprising to see how these scenarios will be handled by the emperor of minds and how their opponents are going to take it as an agenda for the next elections. unfortunately, the nature that is at its best will start to face the ill effects after the chart of development and economy will take a pace for exponential growth. it is unfortunate that the inverse relationship between economic growth and environmental destruction exists since carbon emission increases with economic development. as shown by the graph below whenever recession took place the carbon emission decreases along with other harmful gases, turning out as a gift for nature but doom for the financial markets. but there is a possibility that several start-ups now emerge with the idea of environment conservation collaborating with ngos innovating and using the best of their capability to reduce the ill effect from the present origin point. in the culmination we can say this pandemic is like “blessing in disguise ” producing a massive impact not only on macro but also on micro-economy. the novel virus not only brought some unexpected results but also uncovered some of our loopholes and unlatched new opportunities for growth, forcing us to define ourselves in several new spheres. quite a while ago we all were chit-chatting about the digital era, how this is benefiting us, covid-19 revealed making us realize this was just the beginning of digital era and a lot is needed to happen in future. it is obvious that not only the indian economy but the global economy is facing and going to face the aftereffects however similar to a virus, the economy will also rise from deep grounds to a green candlestick with individual collaboration! the businesses will soon rise again, people will get back to their jobs, vendors will start getting profits and everything will fall into its places but now a megalithic competitive environment will rise which will grow till decades until nature again shows it’s color and we as a human abide with its outcomes, learning some new lessons and keeping this cycle of fall and growth running. blackcoffer insights 17:vedansh dubey,tcs indore m.p previous articlelessons from the past: some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus crisisnext articleestimating the impact of covid-19 on the world of work ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights real estate data warehouse september 4, 2021 pharmaceutical data power bi report march 14, 2021 nlp-based approach for data transformation july 29, 2023 mvp for a software that analyses content from audio (pharma-based) february 28, 2024 load more recommended insights deploy nodejs app on a cloud vm such as gcp, aws,... big data and analytics to help form political leaders win election how artificial intelligence can deliver real value to companies? aws lex voice and chatbot latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 