 how machine learning will affect your business? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how machine learning will affect your business? what we thinkautomobiles & componentsbfsidiversified financialsfinance & accountingsecurities and capital markets how machine learning will affect your business? by ajay bidyarthy - may 29, 2021 18087 machine learning techniques may have been used for years, but recently there has been an explosion in their applications. in fact, in a recent q3 earnings call, google ceo sundar pichai said “machine learning is a core, transformative way by which we’re re-thinking how we’re doing everything.” and they’re far from the only business making that claim. in the past, successful use of machine learning algorithms required bespoke algorithms and huge r&d budgets, but all that is changing. ibm watson, microsoft azure, amazon, and alibaba all launched turnkey cloud-based machine-learning saas solutions in 2015. at the same time startups like idibon, metamind, dato, and monkeylearn have built machine learning products that companies can take advantage of. gartner already puts machine learning at the top of its hype curve, and no: machine learning won’t replace all of your employees with computers or suddenly double your revenue. but that doesn’t mean that it can’t give every business a competitive advantage. there are plenty of business processes that can significantly benefit from machine learning. so how does machine learning change the way businesses operate? fig: machine learning techniques for business bigger upfront costs first thing’s first: machine learning needs training data and training data costs money. especially training data labeled by humans. let me explain. to make machine learning work for business, the algorithm needs to see lots and lots of examples of what it’s supposed to be doing. if you want an algorithm to tell you if a sales lead is good, you need to show it lots and lots of examples of good sales leads and bad sales leads. if you want an algorithm to tag the support tickets you need to show it many examples of support tickets. if you localize your algorithm to a new language you probably need to collect lots of examples in that language. in some instances, a company may have those training sets in-house. for example, a bunch of disqualified or qualified leads. but say you haven’t labeled each of your support tickets as they’ve come in over the year. you’d need to have people either in-house or en masse via a data enrichment platform -label those tickets. the machine will then look at those judgments and start finding connections and patterns it can learn from. much lower ongoing costs machine learning is much cheaper and more efficient than people when it works well. the downside is that it often works well in 80 percent of the cases and badly in 20 percent of the cases, and lowering the 20 percent error rate is hard, if not impossible. but even an 80 percent accurate algorithm can save you a lot of money because good machine learning algorithms know where they are accurate and where they are more likely to have errors. smart companies take the cases where the algorithm has high confidence and uses those directly while sending low confidence cases to humans. banks have been doing this for years. when you put a check in an atm, an algorithm tries to decipher the numbers on the check. if you have really sloppy handwriting or the ink is smudged the algorithm passes the task to a human. this design pattern saves banks lots of money while preserving a very high level of accuracy. your costs will drop over time a huge benefit of machine learning is that it can turn part of your variable cost into more of a fixed cost. if you use humans to handle cases where that algorithm is struggling, you are creating the perfect training data to feed into your algorithm. this is a well-studied technique called active learning it turns out that training data labels collected on cases where the algorithm has low confidence help the algorithm learn much, much more efficiently. as the algorithm becomes increasingly more accurate, the unit economics of your business process become better and as machine learning becomes able to handle more cases, the expensive humans are only called in on the toughest, rarest situations. that means you use the best of both human and machine intelligence in tandem: leveraging the speed and reliability of computers for the easy judgments and the fluency and expertise of humans for the difficult ones. and if that sounds like smart business, it’s because it is. blackcoffer insights 28: monica v, sns college of technology tagsaideep learningmlr & d previous articledeep learning impact on areas of e-learning?next articlerecommendation system for posts and articles. ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems september 16, 2022 role of big data in healthcare may 26, 2017 coronavirus: impact on the hospitality industry may 1, 2020 incident duration prediction – infrastructure and real estate february 27, 2022 load more recommended insights big data solution to an online multivendor marketplace ecommerce business ai-based algorithmic trading bot for forex how advertisement/marketing affects business. the future of telehealth services. latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 