 will machine replace the human in the future of work? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think will machine replace the human in the future of work? data scienceanalyticsartificial intelligencebig datawhat we think will machine replace the human in the future of work? by ajay bidyarthy - june 24, 2021 19051 introduction where is this disruptive technology taking us? take it or leave it, disruptive technology always creates new jobs much more than depleted jobs. you might notice certain jobs disappearing but those jobs are the jobs that transform humans to robots, to machines, and the technology is creating machines to replace them. technology creates the data analysis tools to manipulate and create custom scenarios using artificial intelligence (ai), big data and machine learning (ml) algorithms to predict and drive consumer behavior. data analytics tools, such as google analytics , and others are available today for free, and, if used correctly, can help organizations save millions, maybe billions of dollars of sales and marketing. how machine will replace humans? before i go on, i think it’s best to level set on what constitutes machines. in the context of this article , machines describe computers and computerized equipment, like robots, that have been programmed to learn, sometimes like humans. occasionally we call this artificial intelligence (ai), other times we call this machine learning, and still other times we call this robotics. and yes, these are technically different things. these bots are more efficient than humans in some specific domains and are growing smarter with each passing day. they can do some really tough tasks which are considered difficult for any human being. but, within the broad discussion related to the future of work, these are totally interrelated. factory floors deploy robots that are increasingly driven by machine learning algorithms such that they can adjust to people working alongside them. a machine can work efficiently only it has abundant data and information about the work which is being imparted daily to them. but with every forward step & advancement in technology, a threat is proliferating, a threat of being replaced on our work front. every passing day is sealing some jobs for humans all over the globe. similarly, ai is being used to turn hand-drawn sketches (done by humans) into digital source code. role of machines in companies and its future: companies are clearly developing their ai and robotics expertise with the idea that through these technological innovations they’ll be able to cut costsincrease efficienciesoffer new value propositionsexecute new business models or all of the above. of course, it’s not just machines and creatives working together either. in another example, amazon has employed more than 100,000 robots in its warehouses to efficiently move things around while it has increased its warehouse workforce by more than 80,000. humans, in amazon’s case, do the picking and packing of goods while robots move orders around the giant warehouses, essentially cutting “down on the walking required of workers, making amazon pickers more efficient and less tired.” plus, the robots “allow amazon to pack shelves together like cars in rush-hour traffic because they no longer need aisle space for humans. the greater density of shelf space means more inventory under one roof, which means better selection for customers.” why machines can replace humans? during the next few decades (or maybe sooner), the notion of work and whether it is handled by a human or a virtual being will hinge on predictability. as they are starting to do today, machines will manage the routine while humans take on the unpredictable – tasks that require creativity, problem-solving, and flexibility. in this context, robotics should be seen not only as a means to improve operations efficiency but also to improve the quality of life for workers. although it is obvious that human factors involved in a work activity impact job automation, it is also true that highly repetitive tasks—and even mechanical ones—are ideal for robots. besides greater efficiency and speed, automation leads to a lower risk of accidents, greater control and autonomy, and above all, fewer costs for organizations. are machines more diligent than humans? although artificial intelligence and machine learning make us believe that robots are endowed with superior intelligence, in fact they don’t yet have the ability to learn from experience and to respond to unknowns. so as things stand, however much processing speed and automatic learning a robot has, it doesn’t beat factors innate to the human brain. humans are still a very essential part of the process. think about delivering services to a client. most customer challenges are routine, but humans play a very important role in addressing new issues, solving them the first time they appear, and then consolidating the process into the system. machines vs. humans – which is premium? while machines and humans are placed in proximity, robots can be expensive, but this doesn’t apply to all types, especially those based on robotic process automation (rpa), where the development process incorporates algorithms that significantly reduce costs. moreover, think of how domestic robots—be it a vacuum cleaner, a lawn mower or a pool cleaner—are increasingly part of our daily lives. this level of consumption that robotics has attained makes it affordable to automate tasks in modern homes to obtain greater control, security and comfort. man and machines together the division between humans and machines has been clear – i’m here, the machine is there – but that boundary is getting fuzzier. smart prosthetics fuse seamlessly with our bodies, making up for lost limbs or providing additional strength, stability, or resilience, as seen in exoskeletons donned by assembly line workers. we use our smartphones symbiotically, but what if they were integrated directly into our bodies? think a smartphone in the form of a contact lens capable of transparently delivering augmented reality images straight to the brain. think it sounds like science fiction? think again. the first prototypes have already been built. soon, brain-computer interfaces could become seamless as well, creating a new synergistic relationship between the cloud and us. at that point, the question of who knows what would be moot; you ask me a question and i know the answer. sometimes that answer will be stored in my own neural circuitry, but most of the time it would come from the connection of my neurons to the web. our brain’s decision process is influenced by the way it has been “educated” by the cultural context. these external factors are influencing our decision processes to the point that in certain situations, we can legitimately claim that influence has been so strong that our brains can’t be held accountable for the choices made. the point i’m trying to make is that we humans are in symbiosis with our cultural environment and the tools – both physical and conceptual – that we have been taught to use. my guess is that the transformation will be subtle. conclusion practically speaking, robots growing to the point that they take over the world and then start creating smarter, better robots are impractical and should not even be a concern. none of this is expected in the near future, not by a long shot. if you’ve been to an atm, waited for a pc to boot up after a catastrophic failure, or had a game crash on your x box just when you were about to reach a checkpoint, you understand that we are not in a world where machines do everything perfectly right. before they can take over all of our jobs, they need to be able to do theirs’ flawlessly; until then, we can depend on humans to mess up our lives. this isn’t a win-or-lose situation. we’re going to wind up as a partner to our smarter machines, and that partnership will be fostered by our augmentation through technology. machines will play an essential role in this augmentation and, as with any successful technology, they will fall below our level of perception. in the end, the revolution will be silent and invisible. blackcoffer insights 29: swapna. g, nivashiniya. r, sri manakula vinayagar engineering college(smvec), puducherry tagsalexafuture revolutiongoogle assistancemltools previous articlehow humans and machines are evolving to work together?next articlewill ai replace us or work with us? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights networking platform – have a look march 14, 2021 all you need to know about online marketing may 5, 2021 online barometer dashboard for smart schools system february 20, 2019 ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 load more recommended insights rise of internet demand and its impact on communications and alternatives... the impact of the metaverse on financial services google data studio dashboard for marketing, ads and traction data future of work: robot, ai and automation latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 