 how advertisement/marketing affects business. - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how advertisement/marketing affects business. bfsiderivatives and securitieswhat we think how advertisement/marketing affects business. by ajay bidyarthy - november 19, 2022 7837 we are living in 2022 and everything has changed post the years. the whole world is running on two phenomena, either #technology or marketing. in a simple sense, earlier if we had to buy something our choice was clear with respect to the product, its price, brand, even shops from where to purchase, and more such factors. there were not many alternates and substitutes available in the market for anything. but now the scenario has changed and we could find ample alternates and substitutes available in the market and not only that, even we have alternatives to markets as well. now we even have a choice among the mode of the market to choose from, i.e. either physical market or virtual market. simultaneously the competition between the businesses has also risen. so a question arises, in such a competitive and dynamic environment how do businesses sustain themselves? the only solution to this question is advertisement / marketing. marketing plays a very important role in the #success and failure of any company. marketing philosophy is implemented to attract new and existing customers towards their product/service or company. the very common tool used for marketing is advertising. the basic idea behind advertising is to give customers knowledgeable about the product or service in a very interesting and attractive way. any company should opt for the advertisement model very judiciously. the advertisement tells customers which product they should buy and which to leave. advertisement affects businesses in a very crucial way as they decide whether a product is ready to play in long run or not. most of the products are chosen by the customers because of the advertisement only. if businesses don’t advertise then no one will buy their products. advertisements are the main reason behind the revenues of a company. there are many ways to do advertise through electronic mediums such as televisions, radio, social media, etc., and paper mediums such as newspapers. wrong advertisements can be harmful to businesses as they provide information in the wrong manner. instead of being the needs of people, it becomes unnecessary for the people. this could result in a big loss for the company and may also hamper the image of the company. for example, tata introduced the nano car in india to have low price car but its marketing went wrong in the eyes of the public and it got failed. so advertising/marketing affects a business in both positive and negative ways. blackcoffer insights 45: kush jain, rukmini devi institute of advanced studies tagsmarkets •modelphilosophy •success •technology previous articlerising it cities will impact the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2035next articlenegative effects of marketing on society ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights surveymonkey business questioner report using power bi june 26, 2021 turn your website analytics into actionable insights & decisions using neo4j... march 27, 2021 covid-19 vs indian economy april 11, 2020 an etl solution for currency data to google big query september 16, 2022 load more recommended insights all you need to know about online marketing rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year... from utopia to reality: marketing and the big data revolution how to secure (ssl) nginx with let’s encrypt on ubuntu (cloud... latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 