 gaming disorder and effects of gaming on health. - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think gaming disorder and effects of gaming on health. blackcofferwhat we thinkentertainment gaming disorder and effects of gaming on health. by ajay bidyarthy - june 17, 2020 16652 perhaps the virtual illusion has become today’s “new reality”. inquisitive about the conclusion? let’s attempt to vindicate as the outline story unfolds itself. ever since the concept of gaming floated back in the 1970s a new dimension was put before human beings, intangible in nature, and paradoxically engulfed us since then. it laid an impact on multiple generations in different ways. the last decade witnessed a boom in this industry & with the advancement of technologies in virtual and augmented reality, the gaming world has become an integral part of our day to day experiences. with the intent of being regarded as a leisure activity, it has now percolated over various strata and has managed to gather the attention of teenagers and adolescents on a comprehensive scale. as we explored the fabric of our engineering batch mates, we came across this peculiar guy holding excellent academics with accolades of his names, seemed to be a nerd at a glance and street smart by nature. concomitance happened to be the reason for experiencing the lifestyle of other personalities that included sam as well. sam was not only fascinated by the games but used to spend tirelessly hours and hours in front of the white screen engrossed completely leaving the track of time. as our academics advanced, the intensity of involvement in gaming grew deeper and steadily it turned into addiction in no time. we realized the gravity as we were exposed to his change of behavior and shift of priorities due to his unprecedented absence during our lectures and practical. he was modestly reluctant to share about his whereabouts with his peers. the situation turned grim when he wasn’t able to cope up with the subjects and was socially disturbed while interacting. he was compelled towards the fantasy world and was trapped in the vicious cycle of a never-ending backlog of games. as time progressed his performance turned from bad to worse. he was struggling. it was clear as ice that he had something hidden behind that visage. as sophomores, we were also involved in gaming but soon realized that it does more harm than good. a close cluster of friends decided to lend a helping hand to sam and as they learned about him, the ground beneath their feet slipped away and froze their brain. he had completely lost the circadian rhythm of his sleep, ran into financial losses, aggression draped him, his relations were tarnished due to the habitual routine, and signs of depression were visible on the upfront. poker was the tartar that he had caught. the game of cards as most of us would perceive it, rather proved to be the fulcrum of sam’s near future. in the quest of pleasure through online games, he entered the tunnel of gambling at a very tender age ignoring the risks involved in terms of financial verticals. he was suffering from internet gaming disorder (igd) & his condition deteriorated as days passed by. apparently, from a healthy individual to a drained skinny one, it took a toll on his physical health. mental disturbance sucked him and he grew insensitive towards his academics. the psychological negative consequences were due to the combination of online gaming and gambling platforms. during that phase, the peer group (gaming group) gained more influence than parental control. days arrived when he ran short of money and went ahead to ask his friends in college for the funds. since a large amount of money is involved in gambling, a situation exacerbated when sam had his ethical values on the line and breached his boundaries to satisfy his hunger of gaming and leaped towards illegal means to fund his gambling. the practical project was a crucial part of our engineering curriculum, under which a team of four members was to be established and is expected to remain intact for a year. sam was by no means in anyone’s good books. no one in the batch was ready to risk with sam even though he possessed a brilliant acumen. he was abandoned. we were three friends already and were scouting for the fourth. with mutual consensus, we decided to go ahead with sam. initially, we worked together and collaboration seemed to be perfect. unfortunately, he wasn’t able to clear his backlog exams and had to drop out. at present he plays poker on a professional level, keeping aside his engineering career and battling with his conscience that we may not be aware of. earlier generations used to spend their time or rather invest their time into activities building up their passion, in some cases they pushed their cognition to such an extreme and contributed to a level that humanity as a whole is in-depth to date. can we imagine our present without the existence of sir edison, sir newton, sir tesla, sir einstein, and many more that were engrossed in their domain and served the necessary impetus for our generation? no one knows that sam could have been our generation scientist, hadn’t he chose that path. not everyone is sam but perhaps we could miss our einstein or tesla! maybe our newton is waiting for the new upgraded version of the game instead of sitting under the tree. our mendeleev might be involved in arcade games! feels so numb. millions of teenagers are involved in online gaming platforms and the community is growing at a rapid rate every year. presently the prevalence of igd among the adolescent group was between 1.3% to 19.9% and males reported more prevalence than females. in the fiscal year 2019, there were 300 million online gamers in india. this number was estimated to go up to 440 million gamers by the fiscal year 2022. overall, india ranked the highest in terms of the growth in online game downloads on app stores with a growth rate of 165 percent between 2016 to 2018. 75% of young people use a mobile phone to play different games, 21% use pc/laptop. games like pubg that promote virtual violence calls for the stern attention of the responsible demographics. as per a study, online games are directly affecting the neurons, leading to chemical imbalance thus causing severe depression and anxiety attacks. as per the world health organization, depression is interrelated to physical and mental health and the word ‘depression’ that didn’t exist decades back has become prevalent among the youth, leading to more stress and dysfunction and worsening the affected person’s life situation. anything in excess is poison. so are games. so bear in mind all the risks and do not lose track of time while playing online games. a safe and comfortable gaming experience is guaranteed at slotogate. just check lion slots review, weigh all the pros and cons, and start an amazing gaming adventure unlike any other. in deed the virtual illusion has become today’s “new reality”. blackcoffer insights 18: aftaab sara(m.tech,iit delhi) and furquan shaikh(mba) previous articleiot, ai, ml to detect fire and smokenext articlewhat is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19 pandemic situation? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights data integration for marketers november 7, 2019 payroll analytics october 3, 2020 what is the limitation of e-learning classes? december 7, 2021 advanced ai for road cam threat detection july 22, 2023 load more recommended insights how humans and machines are evolving to work together? healthcare data analysis golden record – a knowledge graph database approach to unfold discovery... monetization of data – innovate to harvest the full value of... latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 