 how voice search makes your business a successful business. - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search homedata scienceartificial intelligencehow voice search makes your business a successful business. artificial intelligencewhat we think how voice search makes your business a successful business. by ajay bidyarthy july 29, 2020 0 16357 share facebooktwitterpinterestwhatsapp finding ways to make using the internet easier is something most modern consumers are passionate about. since the rise of ai-infused technology like amazon’s alexa or apple’s siri, voice search has grown increasingly popular. in fact, nearly 60 percent of people all over the world use voice search at least once a day. as this technology grows more popular and complex with each passing day, business owners are starting to take notice of voice search. capitalizing on this trend is only possible when optimizing the content on your website for voice search. are you trying to make your website more voice search-friendly? if so, check out the following tips. 1. accuracy of voice search in the past, if you wanted relevant answers from a voice recognition technology, well—good luck with that. but today, machine learning systems can compete with people in terms of accuracy. google’s voice recognition, google is now able to understand human language with 95 percent accuracy. these improvements mean that, while you can trust good voice systems to match customers with the right products, services, or information with increasing degrees of nuance, leading businesses already have set customer expectations for delivery. thanks to machine learning algorithms that can detect speech and respond with meaningful results. 2. the interest in voice is only going to grow because voice search systems are at a point where they actually can perform reliably and meet customer expectations just as well (if not better) than traditional query options, customer trust in them is growing: 60% of 18-to-49-year-olds talk to automated voice systems at least once a day.voice shopping is expected to reach $40 billion by 2022—up from $2 billion in 2018; global smart speaker sales expected to exceed $30 billion by 2024.30% of people who don’t have a voice assistant would like to buy one.50% of smart speaker owners would like to get information about deals, sales, and promotions. yet, only 4% of businesses are properly optimized for voice search. what’s with the disconnect? in other words, business leaders are at an ideal intersection where reliable systems are available and there are still many customers who haven’t been reached or who might want more out of the systems they currently use. bringing those systems and customers together will help companies avoid being left behind. 3. people are after convenience and all types of information when people use voice search, they don’t just want to locate a great pair of shoes or a tv. people want all kinds of other information, such as your store hours, how to connect to support specialists, and when you’re having your next sale. this is partly why some experts have predicted a “totally different internet” within the next five to 10 years, one where voice-activated chatbots have all but replaced the e-commerce channels we’re used to using. shoppers are also after general tips that can take some of the friction out of everyday life—think life hacks and how-tos. in fact, words like “how,” “what,” “best,” and “easy” are among the top voice search queries. this means that when it comes to online marketing, you probably need to change your entire optimization approach, taking elements like grammar and semantics, the structure of your site, and structured data markup that influences google’s ability to find your content. of course, optimizing from the start, not as an afterthought, is ideal. 4. how voice become part of customer-brand interactions voice search can be used on both desktop and mobile searches. we can see that customers want different types of information from voice systems, they also can use it at many points in the customer journey. for example, about half of shoppers use voice to research products, even “near me” searches results are mostly done by customers. customers also use voice to: add items to shopping lists (36%)track packages (30%)make a purchase (22%)give a rating or review (20%)contact support (18%)reorder something (17%) these statistics show you should think beyond just having customers find you or your products. voice search and commands can take your buyers from start to finish, so give your customers as much convenience and satisfaction as possible by integrating voice options into more types of interactions. 5. voice is often just the starting point a survey showed that, once a consumer makes a local voice search, their next most common action is to call the business (28%). customers also are highly likely to visit company websites (27%), show up at the company’s location (19%), and do more research into that business or additional businesses (14% and 12%, respectively). so, in short, while voice services can allow a customer to complete many steps without human interaction, you shouldn’t see it as a total substitute. many people are going to take further steps after the initial search, and they still will want to hear a human voice respond back once in a while. they are going to have more questions, and they’re willing to physically connect with you and what you offer. don’t drop the ball in other areas, like making your site aesthetically pleasing and easy to navigate, having enough staff ready to chat, listing an accurate contact number, or keeping your store well-stocked. voice search already is shifting the way customers engage with brands, but there’s still time for companies of any size to get involved with voice systems in ways that can benefit both the customer and the business’s bottom line. the next step is to find voice search solutions. however, as with other technologies, these are not necessarily one size fits all, meaning it’s critical to shop around and be specific about your goals. if you can customize and update your options in a scalable way, they’ll be even more effective for your business. share facebooktwitterpinterestwhatsapp previous articlehuman rights outlooknext articlehow the covid-19 crisis is redefining jobs and services? ajay bidyarthy related articles what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 most popular ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 load more recent comments chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement - ai+ news on chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement - blackcoffer insights on marketing analytics solution, a big data approach latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 