 can robots tackle life loneliness | blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think can robots tackle late-life loneliness? blackcofferdata sciencedata visualizationwhat we thinkfutureinternet of things can robots tackle late-life loneliness? by ajay bidyarthy - december 2, 2020 17064 in this era, everyone is busy in his life. no one spares time for someone. so robots tackle life loneliness? we have no time to stand and stare. this causes loneliness. loneliness is due to fast-moving life and hurry and worry. in the 21st century, everyone is spending most of their time earning money. they are day-by-day transforming into money-earning machines. due to his perception, we are losing our relations as we can’t give enough time to our families. they are busy earning their livelihood. they never get satisfies and always want more. everyone is in a race of earning and then sends his children far away from himself to make them well settled in order to maintain their status. but one faces the consequences of this kind of lifestyle in his old age. people usually don’t spend time with their children when their children are in their childhood but they yearn for the company of their children in their old age. they feel lonely but have none to talk with. they are still attached to people, places, belongings, and memorable events from the past, although they understand that life cannot continue the same way as earlier, and this may easily result in feelings of loneliness and social isolation. as they become older, they need to be attended to in order to meet their daily needs. robots can indeed serve the purpose but they can aid only mechanical care. they are just emotionless, feeling fewer entities. robots aren’t creative. they can work only according to a pre-programmed system and till now no such software has been created that can transfer human feelings into robots. this is the major loophole of using robots to tackle late-life loneliness. they can undoubtedly serve their masters but their masters can’t share their feelings with them as they are incapable to understand or react to them. they can’t change their activity according to the occasion. they can provide anything except emotional satisfaction and without emotional gratification, loneliness can’t be tackled. a master can be attached to his robot but that attachment is only due to their service. they can’t share their thoughts with them. in this era, we are rendered lonely and in late- life feel the need for a companion with whom we can talk. we feel a need for someone who can listen to us, react, and advise us to tackle our day-to-day life problems. but we can’t find one. we have, undoubtedly, achieved great progress in terms of technology but we can never fill the void in the heart of a person struggling with his late-life loneliness with our advancements. we are in a kind of mental trance in which we experience fame, progress, wealth, etc. but when we gain our consciousness, we find ourselves lonely in this world. relations in life are actual wealth in a person’s life. we can never enjoy such a bond with a robot. it will follow our commands, take our appropriate care but can’t react to our emotions. it can’t console us. when a man lives in loneliness for a long time, it eats up his conscience and transforms him into a machine. robots can never become our friends, crack jokes, weep our tears, or establish an emotional connection with us. they can’t understand our feelings. many people go into depression. depression or the occurrence of depressive symptoms is a prominent condition amongst older people, with a significant impact on their well-being and quality of life. they remain sick and loneliness directly impacts longevity. lonely people often think that they are no longer needed in this world and thus they want to die. it impacts their mental, psychological, social, and physical health. robots prove to be useless in these matters. they can provide motivation, only if they have the software to do so but can’t, themselves, react to such a situation. they don’t know about anger, happiness, or sadness. they don’t themselves bring food when their master is hungry until commanded to do so. they can’t even offer a glass of water themselves. a man living without relations and without fellow feeling no longer remains a human being. he becomes none less than a machine as, due to his loneliness, he becomes mentally ill and goes into a condition like trauma where he no longer enjoys nature’s blessings, becomes happy or sad as he loses the ability to react and hence can’t act. it’s a dangerous situation. we face a plethora of challenges in assisted living facilities such as not being addressed to emotional needs, being neglected, and forcing a withdrawal from social activities. relations in life, interaction with fellow beings, sharing of joy and happiness, and fellow feeling make a man from mere a ‘being’ to a ‘social being’ and finally a human being. blackcoffer insights 22: ishatpreet singh, iiser (mohali) tags#darknessofloneliness#impactonpsychologicalhelth#mechanicalcare#noemotionalcompanion#noneedinworld#realtions#servantnotfriend previous articleembedding care robots into society and practice: socio-technical considerationsnext articlehow we forecast future technologies? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights impact of indian economy due to covid-19 april 12, 2020 power bi dashboard on operations, transactions, and marketing data, embedding the... may 14, 2022 aws quicksight reporting dashboard january 16, 2022 callrail, analytics & leads report alert august 30, 2021 load more recommended insights transforming the healthcare systems mvp for a software that analyses content from audio (pharma-based) design and develop mlops framework for data-centric ai do ethnic differences possibly influence the risk of multiple sclerosis development... latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 