 mobile apps - future | blackcoffer insights | know more about unknow facts sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think what is the future of mobile apps? blackcofferdata sciencebusiness analyticswhat we thinkdata visualization what is the future of mobile apps? by ajay bidyarthy - february 12, 2021 17740 from what i have learned on the mobile apps development market recently, it is becoming harder for an android or ios developer to find a suitable and well-paying job in the market. some major reasons include the increasing supply of mobile engineers, people generally stop downloading apps, and many more. in this article, i will go through a more detailed explanation of the recent trend mentioned above and my two cents on what mobile engineers could do to prepare themself for the upcoming challenge! and the future of mobile apps. coding bootcamps increase the supply side for mobile apps developers although the demand for mobile developers has not fallen sharply compared with previous years, the growth rate has slowed. on the other hand, owing to a great number of coding boot camps that target to bring up mobile and frontend engineers, a great number of developers are flooding into the developer job market. the supply side for mobile engineers has increased rapidly in recent years, raising the standards for qualified mobile engineers. the days of a mobile engineer easily getting over 10 job offers are over. recode ran an article in mid-2016, that begins: “the mobile app boom kicked off in july 2008, when apple introduced the app store. now it is over.” according to data gathered and analyzed by the cakeresume team, javascript and python are now the most in-demand programming languages for companies who post product development jobs on cakeresume, both together taking up almost half of the job opportunities, while mobile engineers taking up merely 10% of the job opportunities. learn more about tech salaries in taiwan tech salaries in taiwan 2019 overview people stop downloading mobile apps while app usage continues to grow and revenue also ascends, the majority of consumers actually download zero apps per month let’s face the truth, born and raised up in the era of the information explosion, individuals don’t have the leisure to check on what’s new on the app store every day. when it comes to choosing an app to download, many people feel overwhelmed by the sheer number of options available. take the productivity category of the app store as an example, there are over thousands of apps in this category, and new apps popping up almost every week. it is almost impossible for users to dig through and learn all the apps. they just choose what is on top then click install. and not to mention that if you could build an awesome productivity app, google and apple could do it 10 times better and faster than you. in the end, there’s not as much need for individual apps to accomplish similar convenience factors. what you could do to prepare for the future changes for mobile apps although the bull run for mobile development has ended, there are still over 2 billion smartphone users, 27.5 billion mobile apps downloaded, and time spent per day on mobile devices has increased rapidly in recent years. moreover, apps offer a user experience that even ‘responsive websites’ are unable to provide. in order to stay on top of the game, you will have to differentiate yourself from the pack — other mobile engineers. if you are a mobile engineer who only knows how to code and tweak your app’s ui, you aren’t that different from others after all. below i listed a few ways that you could implement so that you could stay competitive in the job market. 1. choose newer technologies when you have the chance if you are an android developer, you could start choosing a job involving kotlin or flutter, which are backed by google. if you are an ios developer, try to look for a job to get involved with using swift. although older mobile coding languages, such as java and objective-c, still have their upsides, the main reason why kotlin and swift are created at first is to address the older languages issue. it means that kotlin and swift provide many safety mechanisms available out-of-the-box while being more concise and expressive than java and objective-c at the same time. kotlin vs. java: which one you should choose for your next android app a detailed comparison of java and kotlin to help you decide which language will work best for your next mobile… objective-c vs swift in 2019 the article covers a brief comparison between objective-c and swift in 2019, with abi stability. 2. build up your domain knowledge and industry skills this point is especially crucial. each industry has its specific skills to learn and refine. for example, if you are building a stock, foreign exchange, future, or options market app, you will have to understand the websocket protocol, which lets you transfer as much data as you like without incurring the overhead associated with traditional http requests. for the streaming media industry, possessing experience with live streaming protocols such as hls, rtmp, webrtc will be a must to deal with streaming-related apps. these industry skills can really make you stand out, and adds another layer of expertise to your already pretty impressive mobile engineer title, making you more valuable in the job market. 3. follow the irresistible tech trend the future of mobile app development will be shaped by how businesses harness mobile technology to solve people’s everyday problems. don’t try to fight the irresistible trend, see how you can surf the trend! exposing yourself or trying to get a job in the field mentioned below will absolutely give you more opportunities as a mobile developer. so what are the trends for mobile apps development? iot (internet of things)“the driving force behind the growing mobility market is the impact of the iot and its broad reach,” writes the experts at maryville university online. in the future, apps will need to speak to each other, in the same way, that devices in the iot communicate. the market needs companies that can develop custom iot applications — sensors and devices, web apps, and both b2b and b2c mobile end-user apps. ai (artificial intelligence)according to experts at maryville university, ai is everywhere, from predictive analytics algorithms used by retailers like target and amazon to anticipate shopping needs to fraud detection monitors from banks and credit cards. some more examples: tinder uses machine learning to increase a user’s chances to find a match. google maps makes the process of choosing a parking spot easier. ar (augmented reality) and vr (virtual reality) tech giants such as apple and google have launched their own augmented reality kits — ar kit and ar core resp to help app developers to create high-quality mobile apps. as for vr, the latest buzzword associated with it is v-commerce. one of the examples is alibaba, which in november of 2016 introduced vr shopping to its customers across china. blackcoffer insights 24: nikhil singh, st.peter's college agra tagswebrt previous articlethe future of fintech ai & blockchain.next articlehow to setup custom domain for google app engine application? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights behavior based chi-square model to detect data-exfiltration over the network may 15, 2017 population and community survey of america august 22, 2021 how artificial intelligence can deliver real value to companies? october 15, 2018 ad networks marketing campaign data dashboard in looker (google data studio) july 26, 2023 load more recommended insights an agent-based model of a virtual power plant (vpp) sentimental analysis on shareholder letter of companies big data analytic in construction & real estate artificial intelligence in business: separating the real from the hype latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 