 are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust? blackcofferwhat we thinkfutureprediction are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust? by ajay bidyarthy - october 23, 2020 17442 one thought always comes to my mind…what if we lived without that dander hanging over our heads?and you all know what is that danger is. for more than 70 years the world has faced the very real threat of nuclear war.nuclear war is a real and growing threat. the united states and russia have left critical agreements and treaties, while actively planning to add new types of weapons to their arsenals.meanwhile, us nuclear policy remains rooted in the cold war, increasing the risk that nuclear weapons could be used again.it doesn’t have to be this way. with the right policy changes and a commitment to diplomacy, the united states can be a leader in reducing the nuclear threat and we can also help them. but the question arises is what are the activities are being done for the prevention of nuclear holocaust?and they are : pressuring congress to support change,holding the white house accountable through independent research and analysis,increasing public demand for changing nuclear weapon policies.now the question is what can we do to prevent a nuclear holocaust?tell government: don’t fund a nuclear arms race.call for investment in public health and public security, not nuclear weapons.tell government: the united states should never start a nuclear war.urge presidential candidates to make preventing nuclear war a priority. activist resourcesnuclear weapons are extremely strong to show the power of a nation. but no one knows the drawback of this attack between the two countries. for example hiroshima and nagasaki, the realistic bomb blast explained the blood of each people. the crux of my presentation is that the circumstances surrounding nuclear war call for a new level of commitment by the scientific community to reduce the risk of nuclear war. to generate new options for decreasing the risk, we need analytical work by people who know the weaponry and its military uses. but that is far from enough to do the job. we also need scholars who know the superpowers in-depth; people who know other nuclear powers; people who know third-world flashpoints; people who know international relations very broadly; people who know a lot about policy formation and implementation, especially in the superpowers; people who understand human behavior under stress, especially leadership under stress; people who understand negotiation and conflict resolution people and much more. in other words, the relevant knowledge and skills cut right across all the physical, biological, behavioral, social. international physicians for the prevention of nuclear war, world health, british medical association, and the american medical association; others have contributed as well. the central point is that a kind of awakening has occurred in the medical community to the responsibility of addressing the immense nature of the threat to public health. at last, i want to conclude that: “ in a nuclear war, except evil force, no one is the winner. science and humanity become the villain. everyone knows that but the gamblers want to play their cards. be aware of the nuclear gamblers “.i hope that soon the world will be full of love and affection and there will be no place for hate and the wars will be held. blackcoffer insights 21: rutika pagar, c.m.c.s college nashik tagsnon-violancenuclear free worldpeace of worldwar and conflict previous articlewill technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?next articleadvanced-data analytics, ai, and ml for news and media companies ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040. august 16, 2023 what is the chance homo sapiens will survive for the next... october 22, 2020 the future of fintech ai & blockchain. february 12, 2021 impact of news, media, and press on innovation, startups, and investments january 16, 2022 load more recommended insights what analytics & it outsourcing engagement model is right for you? budget, sales kpi dashboard using power bi qualtrics api integration using python how to overcome your fear of making mistakes? latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 