 is perfection the greatest enemy of productivity? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think is perfection the greatest enemy of productivity? data scienceanalyticsblackcofferwhat we think is perfection the greatest enemy of productivity? by ajay bidyarthy - august 23, 2020 16877 what’s perfection really? does every person expect perfection from oneself or someone else? or is it in certain amounts? many times the certain question comes to the mind when we think about what we deem perfect. but how do we verify it? let us understand this through the work of three individuals who know are to be put on a task in carpentry on a budget. all are given rs. 5000 (assumed) to complete this task. they can’t go beyond this budget. manish, vinay, and sameer need to make a stool for themselves each. manish has no understanding of carpentry; he learns from youtube. vinay took his carpentry lessons during engineering, so he has a practical idea of how to make a stool. but sameer is a carpenter, so he has a total understanding of the material, process, and final product. let us start with manish. understand that the task is to get their jobs done. manish has two options here. he can either order parts and assemble it himself or order the material required such as wood, glue, nails, etc and then work on it before the assembly of the final product. the only difference is his lack of expertise in this field. vinay has the same options but has practical experience from his carpentry classes during the workshop in engineering. sameer has an advantage since he has both skill and experience perfected over a course of time. all three are given three days for the task. since manish finds it easy to assemble the stool using parts procured from another carpenter; he talks to a carpenter he knows and orders 3 leg parts, 6 horizontal support bars, and one circular base which will sit on the top. vinay thinks he will be able to shape the parts because of his experience as a student and orders several cylindrical wooden leg parts, cuboidal bars, and a thick sheet. sameer has all the required material in his shop and he begins to work on the stool on the first day. manish and vinay wait for a day for the parts to come. they begin to work on the second day. manish uses the tricks learned from youtube videos; uses a hammer to place the nails purchased from a nearby shop in the pre-made hole, applies glue in certain areas as directed in the video, and places weight on the assembled stool. he waits for the glue to cure. vinay uses borrowed drill bits, drill machines, cutters, sandpapers purchased from a shop, etc, and starts working on the wooden parts as soon as the parts arrive in the morning. he is able to recall his carpentry instructions and attempts to shape the parts based on drawing of his product he made last night. sameer meanwhile has completed his assembly and has put the assembly to rest for the glue to cure. on the third day, each of them has the stool ready. they evaluate their own work and notice certain facts. manish notices that he did complete the task but, his stool was wobbly and not glued well. it could fall the moment he sits on it. also, he forgets to polish the wooden parts and give it a professional finish since he forgot to watch that bit of video over youtube. vinay completes the task his stool is sturdy and cured well overnight. but there are minor issues with it. one of the three legs is cut short by a few mm and the stool, a tad unstable. sameer on the other hand completes the task with a good product. the stool is well-balanced, and polished, as he expected from him. sameer is satisfied with his work and finds it to stool perfect. manish thinks he did his best considering he had no experience of the task to be done. he is satisfied with his work. but vinay is unhappy, he could have done better and made the product better. he doesn’t find his efforts well put and thinks he wasn’t productive enough and hence his stool is nowhere perfect. understand that all of them had a set of skills and experience, but only sameer had the right skills and experience to produce a perfect product. manish and sameer were satisfied and happy with their work. manish made a wobbly stool which could break the moment someone sat on it but happy he gave the task a go. he thinks put the efforts and he did a good job. it was only vinay who could not overcome the fact that his work was not perfect. in vinay’s case, it can be observed that he could not deliver what he learned from carpentry classes. the reason is simple, he put effort but didn’t have the experience. experience mattered. since vinay thinks otherwise, he believes he has the perfect skills to complete the task but he could not deliver the results. he is not satisfied with his results and wishes to spend another day working on the stool on his own to get to his idea of the perfect result. in this case, the idea of perfection itself is misplaced. you see, the end product made by vinay and manish would not match sameer’s but the task could have been completed had they understood where their shortcomings lied. for both, it was their skill. sameer had the perfect skill to get the expected result which resulted in better productivity, others didn’t. and in this story, every individual put effort regardless of the result. but some were satisfied and some dissatisfied. their satisfaction made their creations perfect in their eyes and dissatisfaction made one believe he wasn’t productive enough. “perfection is subjective and productivity is utility extracted given a certain amount of effort”. you can try to be as productive to achieve something but ultimately, it’s the satisfaction you get that defines the boundary of perfection. if you aren’t satisfied, you won’t find anything perfect. you would just waste both your time and effort over something that doesn’t suit you in the first place, as explained in the story before. “it isn’t productivity that will be the greatest enemy but your satisfaction”. satisfaction will determine how you perceive perfection and defines where your threshold for perfection lies. the real enemy is dissatisfaction. you get demotivated and restless. you lose sight and discontinue only because you are unable to pass your own expectation. so, it’s the only obstacle that comes in between productivity, from time to time. if you are looking for perfection in the world of online gambling, then check ice casino. a diverse range of games, attractive promotions, easy banking options, and premium customer support will be responsible for your satisfaction. explore the platform today for an unforgettable journey brimming with excitement and entertainment, and it will surpass all your expectations. productivity is far from being your enemy. the greatest enemy will be your expectations which lead to dissatisfaction. it will play a major role in crafting your idea of perfection in every day. blackcoffer insights 19: jude francis, institute of management technology (imt), nagpur previous articlenew jersey based micro business sentiment analysisnext articlehow to overcome your fear of making mistakes ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights ai solution for a technology, information and internet firm july 26, 2023 how machines, ai, automations, and robo-human are effective in finance and... may 29, 2021 real-time sentiment analysis tool – retail industry july 6, 2019 estimating the impact of covid-19 on the world of work may 1, 2020 load more recommended insights playstore & appstore to google analytics (ga) or firebase to google... chatbot and conversation agent transform the experience and engagement trading bot for forex power bi dashboard on operations, transactions, and marketing data, embedding the... latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 