 how to overcome your fear of making mistakes - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how to overcome your fear of making mistakes data scienceanalyticsblackcofferwhat we think how to overcome your fear of making mistakes by ajay bidyarthy - august 23, 2020 17074 no one can reduce mistakes to zero, but you can learn to harness your drive to prevent them and channel it into better decision making. use these tips to become a more effective worrier. don’t be afraid or ashamed of your fear. our culture glorifies fearlessness. the traditional image of a leader is one who is smart, tough, and unafraid. but fear, like any emotion, has an evolutionary purpose and upside. your concern about making mistakes is there to remind you that we’re in a challenging situation. a cautious leader has value. this is especially true in times like these. so don’t get caught up in ruminating: “i shouldn’t be so fearful.” don’t be ashamed or afraid of your fear of making mistakes and don’t interpret it as evidence that you’re an indecisive leader, or not bold, not visionary. if you have a natural tendency to be prevention-focused, channel it to be bold and visionary! (if you struggle to believe this, identify leaders who have done just that by figuring out how to prevent disasters.) use emotional agility skills. fear of mistakes can paralyze people. emotional agility skills are an antidote to this paralysis. this process starts with labeling your thoughts and feelings, such as “i feel anxious i’m not going to be able to control my customers enough to keep my staff safe.” stating your fears out loud helps diffuse them. it’s like turning the light on in a dark room. next comes accepting reality. for example, “i understand that people will not always behave in ideal ways.” list off every truth you need to accept. then comes acting your values. let’s say one of your highest values is conscientiousness. how might that value apply in this situation? for example, it might involve making sure your employees all have masks that fit them well or feel comfortable airing any grievances they have. identify your five most important values related to decision-making in a crisis. then ask yourself how each of those is relevant to the important choices you face. repeat this process for each of your fears. it will help you tolerate the fact that we sometimes need to act when the course of action isn’t clear and avoid the common anxiety trap whereby people try to reduce uncertainty to zero. focus on your processes. worrying can help you make better decisions if you do it effectively. most people don’t. when you worry, it should be solutions-focused, not just perseverating on the presence of a threat. direct your worry towards behaviors that will realistically reduce the chances of failure. we can control systems, not outcomes. what are your systems and processes for avoiding making mistakes? direct your worries into answering questions like these: is the data you’re relying on reliable? what are the limitations of it? how do your systems help prevent groupthink? what procedures do you have in place to help you see your blind spots? how do you ensure that you hear valuable perspectives from underrepresented stakeholders? what are your processes for being alerted to a problem quickly and rectifying it if a decision has unexpected consequences? broaden your thinking. when we’re scared of making a mistake, our thinking can narrow around that particular scenario. imagine you’re out walking at night. you’re worried about tripping, so you keep looking down at your feet. next thing you know you’ve walked into a lamp post. or, imagine the person who is scared of flying. they drive everywhere, even though driving is objectively more dangerous. when you open the aperture, it can help you see your greatest fears in the broader context of all the other threats out there. this can help you get a better perspective on what you fear the most. it might seem illogical that you could reduce your fear of making a mistake by thinking about other negative outcomes. but this strategy can help kick you into problem-solving mode and lessen the mental grip a particular fear has on you. a leader might be so highly focused on minimizing or optimizing for one particular thing, they don’t realize that other people care most about something else. find out what other people’s priorities are. recognize the value of leisure. fear grabs us. it makes it difficult to direct our attention away. this is how it is designed to work so that we don’t ignore threats. some people react to fear with extreme hypervigilance. they want to be on guard, at their command post, at all times. this might manifest as behavior like staying up all night to work. that type of adrenalin-fueled behavior can have short-term value, but it can also be myopic. a different approach can be more useful for bigger picture thinking. we need leisure (and sleep!) to step back, integrate the threads of our thinking, see blindspots, and think creatively. get some silent time. although much maligned, a game of golf might be exactly what you need to think about tough problems holistically. detach from judgment-clouding noise. as mentioned, when people are fearful they can go into always-on monitoring mode. you may have the urge to constantly look at what everyone else is doing, to always be on social media, or check data too frequently. this can result in information overload. your mind can become so overwhelmed that you start to feel cloudy or shut down. recognize if you’re doing this and limit over-monitoring or over checking. avoid panicked, frenzied behavior. on its own, being afraid of making mistakes doesn’t make you more or less likely to make good decisions. if you worry excessively in a way that focuses only on how bad the experience of stress and uncertainty feels, you might make do or say the wrong things. however, if you understand how anxiety works at a cognitive level, you can use it to motivate careful but bold and well-reasoned choices. blackcoffer insights 19: harsh arya & abhishek kumar singh (akgec, ghaziabad) previous articleis perfection the greatest enemy of productivity?next articlebig data platform and data lake tool ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights key audit matters predictive modeling september 5, 2021 rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year... december 29, 2022 transform api into sdk library and widget september 15, 2022 lessons from the past: some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus... may 1, 2020 load more recommended insights how data analytics and ai are used to halt the covid-19... recommendation system for posts and articles. how will covid-19 affect the world of work? networking platform – have a look latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 