 impacts of covid 19 on streets sides food stalls - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think impacts of covid 19 on streets sides food stalls data scienceanalyticswhat we thinkautomobiles & componentsbusiness analyticsconsumer stapleshousehold & personal products impacts of covid 19 on streets sides food stalls by ajay bidyarthy - november 6, 2021 15252 petty entrepreneurs like streetside food stalls form an essential part of an economy that plays a significant role in balancing the development of a nation’s economy. the importance of street food vendors not only helps in increasing the country’s per capita income but also helps to make a living for the unemployed in society with a limited investment. most of them are the sole breadwinners for their families. so, with the covid-19 wreaking havoc, the uncertainty of the lockdown policies increased the concern of people over hygiene and the lack of investment to upgrade their businesses to provide better hygiene facilities that can take away food from their mouths. various states have provided relief packages and support but, in a country, as populous as ours, it has hardly been appropriately implemented. delhi, for instance, recently announced a rupee 500 million stimulus package to nearly 500,000 rupees, recognizing the severe consequences of the loss of livelihoods. the seller’s intended remedy is a credit loan that provides all sellers with an initial working capital of rs 10,000, but this is not enough. instead of loans, the government should consider converting them directly into income benefits, cash subsidies to secure a livelihood in order to initiate income-generating activities on a regular basis. sellers need income support to get back to work, and if they can’t, they will never be able to repay the loan amount. in an ever-changing crisis, organizations need to take a step forward and ensure that providers are provided with the resources they need to make a living. pandemics have had a vast economic impact on every sector, but the most vulnerable sectors, such as street vendors, suffer the most. decreased income can affect most necessities, such as payments to family and yourself. due to a lack of fixed salaries, stalls cannot quit their jobs. if possible, it might be only a few days, unlike regular employees. for them, the risk of infection is far less frightening than hunger. unlike many of the businesses, most of these food vendors lack the infrastructure to go online and sell products through platforms like swiggy or zomato. “regret not going digital before,” says dilip das, a street side food stall owner at sector v, kolkata. dilip das used to run a small streetside food stall that provided meals to all the employees around the area which is filled with multinational companies. it was a booming business till the arrival of covid. then with the lockdown arriving, almost all the companies opted for work from home policies. dilip tried to start deliveries, but with a lack of support and fear of infection, that business ended before it even started. citing similar reasons, swapan mondal, who runs a south indian food stall at park street said that he did know how to operate a smartphone. and since sales were good, he did not care about learning either. but with the implementation of lockdown which took place within 4 hours, people like swapan barely had time to cope with the changes. furthermore, the covid 19 pandemic made people realize how important trains are in our life. with most of the train network suspended, the entire supply chain was disrupted. hundreds of quintals of food products rotted away, awaiting the logistical issues to fix. many businesses could not afford to run without proper supplies as well. to handle such issues, vendors organizations may consider the following solutions: promotion of livelihood for all vendors, including sellers of non-essential goods the impact of covid19 was extremely severe for informal workers who ran out of capital and income and to try to feed themselves during this long embargo. sellers need to be able to resume sales in order to survive, and governments need to take steps to reopen the market and bring sellers back to the business. reopening of markets keeping in mind social distancing and hygiene india has different types of traditionally crowded markets, even weekly markets (fresh food, cooked food, and essentials) and daily roadside markets. these markets have to reopen with the need for social distance in mind, and the government needs to publish guidelines for that. in the future, sales areas will also need to be designed with social distance and the need for adequate sanitation (running water, wash areas, toilets) in mind. authorities need to work with the town bending commission (tvc). provision of direct support that is devoid of existing registration requirements once the restrictions are lifted and the impact of covid 19 is somewhat manageable, sellers who have been at home for months will need direct income benefits to help them to return to work. the government initiative is a welcome move, but not in terms of the type of bailout and eligibility is enough. in addition, there are very few registered providers in india, so government relief and support must be separated from the very strict registration requirements. in delhi alone, of the approximately 300,000 street vendors, only approximately 13100 have some sort of professional id. if all types of cash grants or livelihood support standards relate to job identification by the state, the government must also accept registration with workers’ organizations/unions on behalf of government-issued sales badges. ensuring social distancing and proper sanitation and hygiene at sites of businesses the government and municipal corporations need to take the initiative and running water, and soap/sanitizers need to be provided for street vendors at their place of work. moreover, the streetside food vendors should work with food safety authorities in the country to train themselves in different ways to maintain hygiene whilst working. taking steps to spread awareness of different government initiatives and reliefs many small businessmen and food vendors do not even know their rights and the benefits they can claim. if they did, many still have no idea about how to claim them. proper awareness camps need to be set up to help these small-time food vendors to know how they can get assistance and help from the government and return back to the business. when covid was an unknown word, these shopkeepers and vendors brought the taste to our mouth, gave us memories to live for, filled our bellies, and quenched our thirst when we needed them. it’s time to provide them with a hand now when they need it. blackcoffer insights 34: sarthak satyabrata mishra and abhijit kundu, symbiosis institute of management studies, pune tagscovid 19hygienestallsstreet foodvendor previous articlerecommendation system architecturenext articleimpacts of covid 19 on vegetable vendors ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights how marketers can start integrating ai in their work november 19, 2018 coronavirus disease (covid-19) effect: the impact and role of mass media... march 30, 2020 return on advertising spend dashboard: marketing automation and analytics using etl... july 21, 2023 the future of investing august 31, 2019 load more recommended insights what is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19... internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways design and develop mlops framework for data-centric ai deep learning impact on areas of e-learning? latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 