 why does your business need a chatbot? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think why does your business need a chatbot? data scienceartificial intelligenceblackcofferwhat we think why does your business need a chatbot? by ajay bidyarthy - september 22, 2020 17435 mr. sakamoto is a bonsai artist, lives downtown kyoto, japan. bonsai is a japanese art form that is the cultivation of small trees in a small or medium container. he is in this field of business for the last ten years and he loves what he does on a daily basis. people from different cities in japan, come to buy his artwork. but, in the early stage of his business, he was just another regular bosai artist. his popularity has increased because of the stories he tells for every art he is selling. his customer immediately loved him for this while buying a bonsai art. he loved to sell his customer with his artwork and a story related to that product which resurrects his presence through his art in customers. soon enough his business thrived and nowadays he is always busy. after the digital revolution, although his sales increased, he was not happy. he was not satisfied. something is eating up his mind day by day. he could not understand what’s the reason behind his remorse. a chatbot is an awesome invention of the digital revolution. it is the real-life embodiment of customer engagement. every business needs this feature- will be an understatement. because customer engagement is the base of any business. the chatbot does the exact thing digitally. it helps customers to answer the queries and tell about the product that the business has to offer is a fully automated way with vibrant customizations. mr. sakamoto is running his business for the last fifteen years now. and now he is happy that he was not for the past couple of years. the rationale behind his happiness is the chatbot. though he has a website and app to sell his bonsai art, he could not engage with the customers in the way he wanted to. he has trained his employees and apprentices, but they are not providing the same service in the way he does. he was unsatisfied and the chatbot relives him from his sadness. he has done all that at affordable prices in no time. let’s understand the mr. sakamoto’s “mondai nai”- perspective about why chatbot is the answer of his problems. building the trust with customers this is the fundamental and root cause for which mr. sakamoto has to implement the chatbot in the first place. his stories are embedded with each art. the product which he sells needs this story to be with it. his stories which were not been told to all the customers before are now sharing with this chatbot and building the trust between them. we all can agree on this one statement that trust is the most impactful aspect, maybe the best of aspects, in the relation between any customer and business-owner, whether the business is small, medium, or large. target the millennial customer millennials, a word that was not introduced before 1990. the generation which is stuck in between gen-x and gen-y. a generation of people accustomed to both digitization and old culture. they are the most targeted audience in this era. what else would be more approachable to this generation than a chatbot? it’s easy, less time consuming to use. mr. sakamoto is now one of the few gen-x persons who can do business with the millennial so easily. better human interactions mr. sakamoto has some employees and apprentices. he has trained them as per his needs. but there is a limit. they can’t deliver the exact things that he can or the way he does. neither chatbot can do that exactly, it will accurately follow the instructions. not only the chatbot solve the queries of the customer in his way, but also give a recommendation to the product in the way he wants too. is there any more attribute he would care about that? absolutely no! 24*7 service the most expensive thing for any businessman is the return of their customer with an empty hand because of his unavailability. a chatbot is a perfect way to solve it. for mr. sakamoto’s customized chatbot is not only present for customers in their availability, but also it was giving the response to the customer in all the time zone, all over the world. mr. sakamoto wouldn’t be happier for this feature. scaling up business in globalization in the era of globalization, what is more, helpful than a chatbot? it can be customized in any language. it can be accessed by any human being residing in any part of the world. and at the end of the day, when that foreigner is happy with the buy and the felicitation and says “arigato” but in his own language, at that moment he feels so warm and happy. handling a lot of customers is really hard. he assigned employees, but the rate is growing fast. so, in the competition of the market, mr. sakamoto took the help of a chatbot. now this automated customized application is handling a greater number of customers than his employees can do. his business is growing exponentially. now, when you found out why mr. sakamoto is happy and his business is growing in this competitive industry then, do you still have a question in mind that why does your business need a chatbot? blackcoffer insights 20: aniket bhunia, netaji subhash engineering college previous articlehow you lead a project or a team without any technical expertise?next articlepayroll analytics ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights design & develop an app in retool which shows the progress... august 24, 2022 how will covid-19 affect the world of work? april 23, 2020 datawarehouse, and recommendations engine for airbnb september 4, 2021 grafana dashboard – oscar awards july 8, 2023 load more recommended insights behavior based chi-square model to detect data-exfiltration over the network data harmonization, etl, data cleansing, & classifications coronavirus: effect on the hospitality industry evaluating logistic regression models latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 