 covid-19 impact on hospitality industrty | blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think covid-19 impact on hospitality industry blackcofferwhat we thinkhealthcare covid-19 impact on hospitality industry by ajay bidyarthy - may 1, 2020 16626 in december 2019, a novel coronavirus strain (sars-cov-2) emerged in the city of wuhan, china. the disease called covid-19 spread to almost every nation in the world creating widespread havoc and disruption in routine life. who recognized it as a pandemic on march 10, 2020. as of april 19, 2020, worldwide around 24 lakh people have been infected and more than 1.6 lakh people have succumbed to covid-19. though a vaccine hasn’t been developed yet, the spread of coronavirus can be stopped by washing hands frequently, covering one’s mouth while coughing, and practicing social distancing from other people. countries across the world are using lockdowns as an effective way to stop the spread. 29 kb of rna has brought the world down to its knees. one-third of the global population has been in lockdown. schools, colleges, businesses, services that are considered non-essential have been put on hold for an indefinite period. even after lifting restrictions, a global recession even worse than the one in 2008 is going to be expected. now arriving at the main field of discussion, i.e. hospitality industry. how covid-19 impact hospitality? propulsion was building for 2020 to be a year of focal collective action on sustainability. the covid-19 outbreak has emphasized more than ever, the importance of future-proofing business for growth and resilience. the hospitality industry includes various services like lodging, food and beverage, events, tourism, transportation, theme parks, etc. before covid – 19 prevailed, we all know that this industry was in much demand and was also one of the major sources of the rising economy. during vacation and festive periods, these were always full of people worldwide. as of now, due to the havoc created and ongoing lockdown they are bearing many losses and is one of the main reason for the decreasing economy. have you ever thought of hotels been converted into hospitals, quarantine centers, and isolation centers? yes, my dear people! amidst this outbreak, many of the hospitality industry properties, be it tiny or enormous have come forward to help the nation fight this life-menacing virus. taj hotel in mumbai is attentively aware of its responsibility towards the community and has opened its doors for the major frontline workers, i.e. medical fraternities to stay at their place while they combat the spread of this treacherous virus. also, many of the government bodies have been transformed to provide shelter to the homeless. recently, in vadodara – gujarat the building which was built for the employees aiming to work for the major mumbai-ahmedabad bullet train project has been come forward to make it an isolation center for doctors and nurses. “railways – the lifeline of citizens.” as railways have started their service years ago, from that period they are being considered as the lifeline of citizens in many metropolitan cities. today at the time of the global pandemic, railways haven’t backed off from the position of the lifeline. yes, my dear friends, you have heard it right! railway coaches in india have been turning into the hospital and isolation centers, marking their presence by helping the government to increase the number of isolation beds. also, many special parcel express trains are running in the entire nation to fulfill the needs of people by transporting essential commodities and goods. hospitality has been one of the most innovative industries in the crisis so far. connections have been rapidly formed to donate food and beverages to local charities from various hotels. many of the hospitality bodies are standing in solidarity with the communities affected by this threatening disease by lighting their windows in the shape of a heart, seen in hotels across the world. with this outbreak, there is a sharp drop in tourists worldwide as the aviation, railways and public transport buses have come to a standstill due to severe government restrictions. today it is clear that hospitality industries must be prepared for various situations like a pandemic, climate change, etc. as of now they are facing devastating and disastrous covid-19 impact on its various sectors. the debt being the normal capital intensive component has to be serviced by payment of interest on debt and repayment of debt. hotels being labor-intensive, have lots of fixed costs such as wage bills, besides paying government levies, minimum load charges, etc. the earlier indian hospitality industry was on average witnessing 65 to 70% of occupancy till the end of february. the first few days of march were fine, once things started accelerating, the occupancy has gone down to a severe minimum. also as soon as the pandemic ends by god’s grace, the hospitality industry will still face some loss as the tourists will be much lesser in the beginning months. as soon as the crisis gets over, the hospitality industry will have a very crucial role to play in rehabilitating lives within their local communities. millions of people will be unemployed leaving them at high risk of poverty and exploitation. as the industry starts to recover, hospitality will be one of the sources to increase employment to the needy ones taking the poverty level to a minimum. within india, after the crisis over, people should travel to the less known and highly economically affected destinations to help the hospitality industry overcome the loss they bore due to covid-19. hence, the hospitality industry suffered and is suffering a lot due to this pandemic and despite that, it is also helping the nation to win against this dangerous disease. thus covid-19 impact on hospitality “let’s be grateful to all the frontline workers saving the entire nation and also be thankful to all the various sectors of the hospitality industry who have come forward to help and serve the nation.” soon we will fight this! stay home! stay safe! jay hind! blackcoffer insights 17: ejan khalifa and uma kanetkar (gujarat) tagscovid-19 impact on hospitality previous articlecoronavirus impact on energy marketsnext articlelessons from the past: some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus crisis ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights risk factors and predicting intraoperative, and postoperative blood transfusion june 26, 2019 audify music player website in mern stack march 14, 2021 etl and mlops infrastructure for blockchain analytics september 16, 2022 an outlook of healthcare by the year 2040, and how it... august 20, 2022 load more recommended insights how to connect a domain and install wordpress on microsoft azure how is login logout time tracking for employees in office done... data from crm via zapier to google sheets (dynamic) to powerbi how retail industry drive value from big data? latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 