 future digitalization of healthcare services | management challenges sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services what we thinkdata sciencefutureforecasts management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services by ajay bidyarthy - december 2, 2020 17767 management acts as a guide to a group of people working in the organization and coordinating their efforts, towards the attainment of the common objective.management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services characteristics for future digitalization of healthcare universal: all organizations, whether it is profit-making or not, require management, for managing their activities. hence it is universal in nature. goal-oriented: every organization is set up with a predetermined objective and management helps in reaching those goals timely, and smoothly. continuous process: it is an ongoing process that tends to persist as long as the organization exists. it is required in every sphere of the organization whether it is production, human resource, finance, or marketing. multi-dimensional: management is not confined to the administration of people only, but it also manages work, processes, and operations, which makes it a multi-disciplinary activity. group activity: an organization consists of various members who have different needs, expectations, and beliefs. every person joins the organization with a different motive, but after becoming a part of the organization they work for achieving the same goal. it requires supervision, teamwork, and coordination, and in this way, management comes into the picture. levels of management top-level management: this is the highest level in the organizational hierarchy, which includes the board of directors and chief executives. they are responsible for defining the objectives, formulating plans, strategies, and policies. middle-level management: it is the second and most important level in the corporate ladder, as it creates a link between the top and lower-level management. it includes departmental and division heads and managers who are responsible for implementing and controlling plans and strategies which are formulated by the top executives. lower level management: otherwise called functional or operational level management. it includes first-line managers, foremen, supervisors. as lower-level management directly interacts with the workers, it plays a crucial role in the organization because it helps in reducing wastage and idle time of the workers, improving the quality and quantity of output. future digitalization of healthcare in the current day and age, a wave of digitization has taken over the world. all the emerging technologies like artificial intelligence and others are helping people live better and easier life. the service sector has also benefited a lot from digitization. it got further boost when prime minister narendra modi, in the year 2015, launched a campaign known as ‘digital india.’ among the various industries in the service sector, digitization has had a massive impact on the operation of the healthcare and diagnostic industry. it has helped in the development of this industry and enhances life for millions of people. the condition of india in terms of healthcare has been quite grim. patients who need attention are neglected and are unable to avail proper treatment or diagnosis. however, with the coming up of digitization, there has been hoped for this industry also. according to dr. keshab panda, ceo & md, l&t technology services, there are three trends emerging in the healthcare and diagnostics ecosystem as a result of digitization. 1. value-based healthcare this is a model of healthcare where doctors and hospitals are paid based on patient health outcomes. the coming up of digital tools in this segment of healthcare can be considered as the starting tool. dr. panda further says that the implementation of advanced digital technologies in patient-care domains like- mobile health apps, telehealth, wearables, and remote monitoring can help in enhancing accessibility, boost efficiency and augment the effectiveness of treatment and preventive care. 2. new product development the healthcare industry over the past few decades has changed drastically. with the coming of emerging technologies, new surgical procedures and medical devices have been made available. 3. connectivity while talking about connectivity in healthcare, dr. panda said that with digitization taking over the industry, it is only a matter of time when with the help of the internet and smartphones, digital healthcare will be everywhere. the internet for once has helped doctors connect to their patients and also with one another. this has helped in enhancing the doctor-patient engagement by increasing their interaction time. big data aggregates information about a business through formats such as social media, ecommerce, online transactions, and financial transactions, and identifies patterns and trends for future use. for the healthcare industry, big data can provide several important benefits, including: lower rate of medication errors – through patient record analysis, the software can flag any inconsistencies between a patient’s health and drug prescriptions, alerting health professionals and patients when there is a potential risk of a medication error. facilitating preventive care – a high volume of people stepping into emergency rooms are recurring patients also called “frequent flyers.” they can account for up to 28% of visits. big data analysis could identify these people and create preventive plans to keep them from returning. more accurate staffing – big data’s predictive analysis could help hospitals and clinics estimate future admission rates, which helps these facilities allocate the proper staff to deal with patients. this saves money and reduces emergency room wait times when a facility is understaffed. challenges for future digitalization of healthcare 1. cybersecurity although ransomware, data breaches, and other cybersecurity concerns are nothing new to the healthcare industry, the 2020 covid-19 pandemic revealed just how vulnerable sensitive patient health information really is. the recent growth of digital health initiatives- like telehealth doctor visits — is a major contributor to the severe increase in breached patient records. as more healthcare functions continue to move online over the next year, it’s extremely important to ensure these processes are protected from outside threats. 2. invoicing and payment processing: medical practices are citing patient collections as their top revenue cycle management struggle as patients are becoming responsible for a larger portion of their medical bills. in order to help encourage patients to submit payments in a timely manner, providers must adhere to patient payment preferences. to meet patient expectations and improve the user experience, ensure billing statements are patient-friendly. you should offer paperless statements and a variety of payment options (e.g. credit card, etc.) via an online patient portal and utilize the latest payment technologies, such as mobile and text-to-pay. new features like text or email reminders help effectively communicate with patients and encourage them to pay their financial obligations. 3. patient experience the medical insurance landscape has experienced some significant changes in recent years. as more patients are responsible for a larger portion of their healthcare bill, they naturally demand better services from their providers. healthcare organizations will face tougher competition in attracting and retaining patients who demand an experience that matches the level of customer service they expect from other consumer brands. they demand a streamlined patient experience so they can “self-service” to resolve most questions, issues, or concerns (e.g., downloading an immunization record, booking an appointment, paying their bills, or checking their account/insurance status) whenever, wherever, and however is most convenient for them. blackcoffer insights 22: priyam verma and riya malik tagsartificial intelligencebig data analyticschallengesdecision makingdigital indialevels of managementmanagementnew product developmentservice sectortechnologyworkforce previous articleintegrating and deriving insights from the cost of equitynext articleembedding care robots into society and practice: socio-technical considerations ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights big data solution to an online multivendor marketplace ecommerce business january 16, 2022 impact of covid-19 pandemic on tourism & aviation industries june 22, 2020 rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure,... august 24, 2023 how does ai help to monitor retail shelf watches? september 28, 2021 load more recommended insights lessons from the past: some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus... advantages and disadvantages of e-learning during the covid-19 for students and... the workflow of a machine learning / artificial intelligence project audify music player website in mern stack latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 