 impact of covid-19 pandemic on office space and co-working industries. - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think impact of covid-19 pandemic on office space and co-working industries. blackcofferwhat we thinkcommercial & professional services impact of covid-19 pandemic on office space and co-working industries. by ajay bidyarthy - june 18, 2020 16562 covid 19 has bought the world to its knees. with businesses being shut, travel being banned, schools, and colleges being closed, we have observed an impeccable amount of sorrow and despise along with a great amount of mental torture and destruction. though situations are improving now, and the lockdowns are being lifted, it is a fact that it cannot be shunned that this virus will have a long term impact on people, and the effects will not only be felt economically and physically but also mentally. we’ve been reading articles regarding the impact of covid 19 on the economy, education, mental health, and every other possible aspect. but one topic which has not been talked about much is the impact of covid 19 on office space and co-working industries. well, it is quite obvious that offices will start functioning now, but, the covid period hasn’t ended. this means that social distancing will also have to be followed in offices; where it will be a problem to do so because of the lack of adequate infrastructure and space. the same will be the condition in co-working industries, wherein employees of different companies come and work together under the same roof. however, these problems are quite obvious (though people haven’t thought about them much), but the fact which people fail to notice and understand is that the meaning of space is not only limited to infrastructural space which is measured in square foot or square meters; but it also extends to metal space, or for that fact, space in the minds of people for others and their thoughts as well as opinions. coronavirus has left a big scratch in our country; just the way a car needs repair after an accident, our country will also need repair after the control of this virus. but, unlike a car, our country will require a large amount of time to get restored and to stand straight without any support. needless to say, the economic stability of our country will definitely be hit because of this reason. but the problem is since the earnings of the employers will reduce, it will subsequently lead to a drop in the salary of the employees. while some employees might be preferred by their bosses and may receive a raise regularly, others might be subjected to unfair treatment and made to do the same amount of work for a lower salary. people tend to overlook the thin line which exists between cooperation and competition. the problem doesn’t arise when such a situation happens wherein an employee is getting paid more than the other, but instead, it arises when people start to compare their earnings as well as benefits to that of others. and in today’s world, where people keep money at the top of their priority list, comparisons will play a very important role in the performance of employees and their company. since there will exist inequalities and partialities in companies, there will also exist a sense of hatred and competition among the employees of the same company; who will compete to get a better position or a raise in their salary. this may seem beneficial to some as it might compel the employees to work harder and better, but however, will bring huge losses in the long run. the fact is; employees might end up doing unethical acts which will help them to make a better impression in their boss’s eyes. moreover, since there will be comparisons among the employees, it might happen that the ‘employee of the month’ ends up being hated by all other employees in the company. another situation that might arise is that of bluffing and pretending; wherein employees tend to show that they work very hard but they don’t. this might be practiced by showing the boss that they are working when he is on around, and then chilling the rest of the time when the boss goes home or sits in his office. in fact, employees might also lose interest in working if they sense repeated partialities and inequalities; which they might show by quitting the jobs or not performing to their best. such situations will definitely arise in companies and offices; wherein employees will compete for attention and resources; which will have a great impact on the company and its functioning. and all this will happen because of only one thing; lack of office mental space i.e. space in the minds of people working together in a particular office for cooperation and teamwork, along with ignorance of the fact that things will get better and eventually the same after some time. another kind of industry and companies that will be affected due to the long-lasting impact of covid 19 is the co-working industry and offices. this is because, there will be a shortage of resources and the income of people, but the maintenance cost to be born for the infrastructure, as well the rent will remain the same. because of this, employees will be told by the company owners to exploit the resources present in the offices and use them to the fullest; to compensate for the losses being born and to make better use of the money being used. however, the number of resources will be the same, and so, there will be a case of competition between employees of different companies to use resources and take benefits of the same. if the above two situations happen to occur at the same time (which they most likely will), we will observe a scene of intra-company as well as inter-company competition. also, our personal relations with other employees in the company might also be affected due to this comparison and competition; which itself will be a result of limited mental space. covid 19 will have severe impacts on the office (mental) space of companies and people. people’s thoughts, how they treat others, along with accepting defeat and rejection will be an important aspect of everyone’s lives. moreover, we might also observe a shoot in the intensity and frequency of office people going to psychologists; because of repeated rejection and unfair treatment. however, we need to cope with this thing and realize that it is indeed very important for us to start preparing to expand our mental space and that this competition and comparison will not stay for long and should not affect our personal relations and life at any cost. blackcoffer insights 18: archit khandelwal, shishukunj international school, indore previous articledue to the covid-19 the repercussion of the environmentnext articleai, ml, and iot driven entry management and monitoring ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights microsoft azure chatbot with luis (language understanding) january 24, 2022 how to overcome your fear of making mistakes? august 20, 2020 coronavirus impact on energy markets may 1, 2020 traction dashboards of marketing campaigns and posts september 4, 2021 load more recommended insights networking platform – have a look how will covid-19 affect the world of work? how advertisement/marketing affects business. artificial intelligence in business: separating the real from the hype latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 