 what is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19 pandemic situation? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think what is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19 pandemic... blackcofferwhat we thinkhealthcare what is the repercussion of the environment due to the covid-19 pandemic situation? by ajay bidyarthy - june 18, 2020 16678 what is covid 19 pandemic? on 31st december 2019, a novel coronavirus was identified in wuhan, china. it spread like wildfire in the world. on 11th march 2020, who declared covid 19 as a pandemic and issued guidelines like sanitizing hands regularly, wearing masks, and social distancing as viable methods for prevention against this virus. what is social distancing and how is it helpful? social distancing means staying away from other people. so, to limit human interaction various governments all over the world chose life before the economy and ordered complete lockdown in their countries. all schools, colleges, offices, factories, public places, etc. were shutdown from immediate effect. as of 7th june 2020, covid 19 confirmed cases worldwide are 69,94,605 with 4,02,453 deaths and 34,20,048 recovered. the usa didn’t impose lockdown in the early stages due to which it has nearly 19,88,545 confirmed cases with a death rate of 5.6% (as of 7th june 2020) whereas in india lockdown was imposed at the first stage, and so we have 2,47,000 confirmed cases with a death rate of 2.8%. impact on environment rights reserved to statista as we know it is us, humans, who keep exploiting nature which has nurtured us and turn a blind eye to the havoc of our misdeeds. current environmental concerns like depletion of the ozone layer, climate change, soil erosion, air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution, acid rain, noise pollution, loss of biodiversity, and many more are a result of our selfish and never-ending desires for development at the cost of the environment. but when the lockdown was imposed worldwide, our lives just stopped. air traffic (due to flights) dropped by 95% (cntraveller). since no one was allowed to leave homes, carbon footprint per person dropped significantly. the hindu newspaper reported a 17% decline in carbon pollution during the pandemic peak. according to an article in economic times onmay 14th,2020, global air quality has improved this year due to lockdown. economic times posted an article on 8th april 2020 titled “covid 19: all world’s now a zoo, only this time with animals on outside and humans on inside”. this sounds like lock down is good for environment . right? humans are getting what they deserved, animals are safe and the environment is healing due to a reduction in pollution levels. but, no. all this is just the tip of the iceberg . the reality is that humans, despite being under threat due to covid 19, cyclones, earthquakes, and locusts attacks are still damaging the environment. according to voicesofyouth.org:” there has also been an increase in medical waste – much of the personal protective equipment that healthcare professionals are using can only be worn once before being disposed of. hospitals in wuhan, for example, produced over 200 tons of waste per day during the peak of their outbreak, compared to an average of fewer than 50 tons prior. “ according to mongabay news: “despite covid, amazon deforestation is racing higher. the new figures come amid rising fears that illegal loggers and speculators are using the covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to invade indigenous lands and protected areas in brazil”. according to an article in conservation international , an expert said ” in africa, there has been an alarming increase in bush meat harvest and wildlife trafficking that is directly linked to covid-19-related lockdowns, decreased food availability and damaged economies as a result of tourism collapses” apart from the above-mentioned media channels, various other news articles have reported such incidents from various locations around the world. now, what do you think : covid 19 has helped the environment for good or just deteriorated it further? check for yourself. follow social distancing guidelines . stay safe . blackcoffer insights 18: anjali pal, lady shri ram college for women previous articlegaming disorder and effects of gaming on health.next articledue to the covid-19 the repercussion of the environment ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights rise of telemedicine and its impact on livelihood by 2040 january 2, 2023 design and develop solution to anomaly detection classification problems september 16, 2022 how retail industry drive value from big data? july 25, 2017 rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year... december 29, 2022 load more recommended insights advanced ai for handgun detection how advanced analytics are redefining banking? gender diversity and equality in the tech industry political intelligence database latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 