 python became the choice for data science - how | let's know sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how python became the first choice for data science. data scienceanalyticsartificial intelligencebig datablackcofferwhat we think how python became the first choice for data science. by ajay bidyarthy - march 4, 2021 18616 data science is gaining popularity exponentially over the past decade, and thanks to that we are now enjoying better products, recommendations, and smoother life. data science is an interdisciplinary subject that includes statistics, math, it, etc. now there is so much to do in data science, so we need an arrangement where all this can be accessible in one place. it will be very hectic to go to hundreds of different resources while doing analysis or building models. but don’t worry, python is there for you. yes, you read it right, python is a general programming language that can provide everything you need for data science. several features that have made python become the choice of data science in past times are: 1. python is a progressively typed language, so the variables are defined automatically. 2. python is more readable and uses lesser code to play out a similar task when contrasted with other programming languages. 3. python is specifically typed. in this way, developers need to cast types manually. 4. python is an interpreted language. this implies the program need not have complied. 5. python is flexible, convenient, and can run on any platform effectively. it is adaptable and can be integrated with other third-party software effectively. now let’s see why python become the choice of data science: pandas this library available in python makes it very easier to analyze the data, you can read a variety of data sets like csv, xml, xlsx, json, etc. you can perform several operations like groupby, sorting with the help of easily accessible objects from pandas. numpy this package helps you with any numerical operation that is needed to be performed in data science, for example calculating euclidean distance, finding ranks of the matrix, etc. matplotlib and seaborn these are excellent data visualization libraries available in python that produce some excellent visualization like shown here, sklearn it provides you state of the art machine learning algorithms for your accurate predictive analysis. scikit–learn is characterized by a clean, uniform, and streamlined api, as well as by very useful and complete online documentation. it provides a selection of efficient tools for machine learning and statistical modeling including classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction via a consistent interface in python. keras keras is an open-source software library that provides a python interface for artificial neural networks. keras acts as an interface for the tensorflow library. keras is an industry-strength framework that can scale to large clusters of gpus or an entire tpu pod. see, now that you have a variety of resources available here in python, then why go anywhere else. python i also becoming the world’s most loved and most wanted programming language and it will surely help to get you the job. data science consulting organizations are empowering their group of developers and data scientists to utilize python as a programming language. python has gotten well-known and the most significant programming language in an extremely brief timeframe. data scientists need to manage a large amount of data known as big data. with simple utilization and a huge arrangement of python libraries, python has become a popular choice to deal with big data. seeing the stats we can clearly see that python has taken over other languages needed for data science. it has also surpassed r which is exclusively built for data science. isn’t this exciting. python in data science has empowered data scientists to accomplish more in less time. python is an adaptable programming language that can be effectively understood and is exceptionally amazing as well. python is highly adaptable and can work in any environment effectively. additionally, with negligible changes, it can run on any operating system and can be integrated with other programming languages. these qualities have settled on python as the top choice for developers & data scientists. so next time you do analysis or work on any data science project, feel proud cause you are working with the most loved language of the world. blackcoffer insights 25: divyansh bobade, lnct (bhopal) tagsanalyticsdata sciencedeep learninglibrariesmachine learningmatplotlibnumpypandaspythonseabornsklearntensorflow previous articlehow google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using a phone camera?next articlewhat is the difference between artificial intelligence, machine learning, statistics, and data mining? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights marketing mix data analysis april 17, 2021 why does your business need a chatbot? september 22, 2020 what if the creation is taking over the creator? june 25, 2021 rising it cities will impact the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city... october 17, 2022 load more recommended insights using people analytics to drive business performance the 8 steps of ai/ml project how to connect a domain and install wordpress on microsoft azure rising it cities will impact the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city... latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 