 what if the creation is taking over the creator? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think what if the creation is taking over the creator? data scienceartificial intelligencebig databusiness analyticsmachine learningwhat we think what if the creation is taking over the creator? by ajay bidyarthy - june 25, 2021 24376 human minds, a fascination in itself carrying the potential of tinkering nature with the pixie dust intelligence, creating and solving the mysteries and wonders with anything but admiration. however, no matter how captivating a human mind can be, it could sometimes be appalled. it could be the hunger or maybe the desire to want more, to go beyond and unravel the limitations, or maybe something like pure greed. humans have never stopped and always keep evolving when it comes to intelligence and this is what makes them the supreme. intelligence calls out for supremacy and so, what if there was to evolve something that opposed a challenge to the very human minds, to their capabilities while making them question their own importance among themselves? artificial intelligence came as a revolution, havoc when it first came to the light. the concept of making machines does work on their own, like granting machines –the intelligence. the idea of making machines work like humans came back in the 19s. back then people didn’t believe in such a thing as making a non-living thing work, think, and carry tasks on its own, not to mention, to actually surpass humans themselves in those skills. the facts are it did. by 1997. the greatest chess player, garry kasparov was defeated in a chess game by a machine and this is where exactly, a top skilled human lost to a mere machine created by another who by himself could’ve never defeated him. it was a rule of power, of betterment, of skills, and the granted supremacy. were ai and machines just tools? equipment? something that helped an unskilled person with his mind and intelligence creates something that could do the skilled work for him with perfection and precision? well initially it was, however, as time passed as humans got drawn to the puzzle of ai, a lot changed. human research went deeper and deeper and as a result, the machines evolved with it. at present, ai & machines is a growing field. as it develops and improves, it has become a part of the industrial revolution. in industries, most of the laborious work that was once taken care of by humans was now replaced by machines. naturally, with the evolution in machines, its precision, mass productivity, quality control, time efficiencies, and all the other factors made it a better choice. a choice over humans. this led to fear, a fear of a not-so-distant future, a future where maybe machines will be so evolved that they’ll take over the need of a human employee leading to unemployment. with the population increase around the world, it became the new tech threat for the labor market. then again… how true is it? does ai really oppose a threat? will adapting to technology make millions of people lose their jobs? will it lead to mass unemployment? will the machines really surpass humans? will, the creation take over the creator? no matter how fearful the future with ai may seem, in reality, it is not that scary. truth is ai is the present reality, it is the key that holds the power to unlock a whole next level of human evolution. technology is growing. there was a time where technology was just an idea, but today that idea has been implemented, it’s working and is carried out. nobody could stop the advancement and growth of artificial intelligence, it’s a wave that is already flowing and we as the present generation and the generations to come to have to learn, to learn to swim in this flow and avoid drowning. many jobs will be replaced by machines, as ai evolves it’ll keep challenging human minds and their skills. with the present covid 19 situation, contactless cashiers to robots delivering packages have already taken over the usual routine tasks. the jobs of secretaries, schedulers, and book-keeper are at risk too. manufacturing units, agriculture, food services, retail, transportation & logistic, and hospitality are all a part of the ai-affected automation. at an estimation, it is said that around 20 million jobs, especially including manufacturing will be lost to robots. as ai, robotics, 3d printing, and genetics make their way in, even the architects, medical docs, and music composers feel threatened by technology. making us question that will ai even edge us out of our brain jobs too? now that can be terrifying. however, as much as machines will be replacing few jobs, they’ll also be creating new jobs. with the economic growth, innovation, and investment around 133 million jobs are said to be generated. these newly enhanced jobs are to create benefits and amplify one’s creativity, strategy, and entrepreneurial skills. so what is the catch? well, it’s the skills. even though ai is creating 3 times more jobs than it is destroying, it’s the skills that count. ai surged in new job opportunities, opportunities like senior data scientist, mobile application developer, and seo specialist. these jobs were once never heard of but now with ai it’s born, however, to do these jobs or for its qualification, one needs high-level skills and to acquire those skills can be an expensive and time-consuming task. the future generation might be able to cope up with it but the real struggle is to be faced by the present two generations. it’s the vulnerability between the skill gap and unemployment and the youths are the ones to be crushed the most. therefore, as the advancement of ai becomes inevitable there remains no choice but to adapt, learn, equip ourselves and grow with it. the companies have to work together to build an ai-ready workplace. they should collaborate with the government, educators, and non-profit organizations and work together to bring out policies that could help understand the technologies’ impacts faster while also providing the employees some security. the economic and business planning should be made considerable for minimizing the impact on local jobs and properly maximizing the opportunities. the employees should be provided with proper tools to carry along with the new opportunities while acquiring ai-based skills for their day-to-day work. new skills should be identified and implemented for the upskilling and continual learning initiatives. employees will have to maximize their robotic quotient and learn core skills. they’ll have to adapt to new working models and understand their roles in the coming future. howsoever, it’s not like ai will totally take over control, even though ai proves to be a better choice, it still has its limitations at present. first, it’s expensive, secondly, manufacturing machines in bulk is not good for the environment. machines are also very high maintenance, therefore human labor will often come cheaper and so will be considered over machines. underdeveloped countries will find it hard to equip their people with the upskilling and reskilling required for ai workplace and so for ai to play a role in those countries, might take years. ai can also be risky and unethical, as it’s hard to figure out who to be held responsible for in cases where an ai went wrong. no matter, how advanced ai gets, there are some skills where humans will always have an upper hand i.e., soft skills. skills like teamwork, communication, creativity, and critical thinking are something that ai hasn’t been able to beat us up to yet and so the value of creativity, leadership, and emotional intelligence has increased. although, with machines coming in between humans causing the lack of human-to-human interaction, the humans seem to fade away a little. with this era, comes the need for good leaders. leaders who are capable of handling both machines and humans together, the ones who are organized enough to manage the skilled and the unskilled employees while providing the unskilled trainees with proper training. leaders who hold profound soft skills and encourage teamwork while working along with machines. the ones who are patient, calm, and optimized. in conclusion, yes ai and machines are going to be very challenging but there’s nothing humans haven’t overcome. adaptation and up-gradation are going to be the primary factor for survival. as we witness the onset of the 4th industrial revolution, let’s buckle up our seats and race along the highway with the essential fuels (skills) so as to not let ourselves eliminated. after all, this is an unending race with infinity as the end, all we could do is try not to run out of fuel. try not to be outdated. blackcoffer insights 29: glady, karunya institute of technology and sciences. tagsaichallengeshuman errorhuman intelligenceml previous articlewhat jobs will robots take from humans in the future?next articleai in healthcare to improve patient outcomes ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights impacts of covid 19 on streets sides food stalls november 6, 2021 automated campaign management system: a comprehensive solution with linkedin and email... march 16, 2024 deploy mern to google app engine, google cloud platform may 16, 2021 how advertisement/marketing affects business. november 19, 2022 load more recommended insights rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040. data from crm via zapier to google sheets (dynamic) to powerbi how coronavirus impact on the hospitality industry a leading firm in the usa, seo and website optimization latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 