 how humans and machines are evolving to work together? - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think how humans and machines are evolving to work together? data scienceartificial intelligencebig datawhat we think how humans and machines are evolving to work together? by ajay bidyarthy - june 24, 2021 19131 in future or in upcoming years humans and machines are going to work together in every field of work. in upcoming days machines will be the need for every human being. machines [ai technology] will do the work which humans are incapable of doing. machines will partner and co-operate with humans. according to the professor at the university of washington, he explained that, as a result of ai, there will be more demand for existing jobs and new jobs will be created that are unimaginable today. human workers and machines will work together flawlessly, complementing each other. machines will learn to carry out easier tasks such as following processes or crunching data. they will also help the humans while difficult. machines or ai will create a great job opportunities for humans in future. john kelly ll, executive vice president of ibm once said that “man and machines working together always beat or make a better decision than a man or a machine independently.” in future, the three sectors of our country like agriculture sector, industrial sector and service sector are going to utilize the machines. so, that their work becomes not difficult. as of now, we can only see that for agriculture purposes various kinds of machines are used which we called as a modern farming method. some major technologies [machines] that are harvest automation, autonomous tractors, seeding, and weeing and drones. as a result, farms can do agriculture peacefully. in the industrial sector also humans and machines are working together to increase production. various types of machines are used in industries such as packing machines, loading machine etc. humans provide instructions to the machines and maintain the management in the company. soon robots [machines] will assist doctors with surgeries. for instance, a doctor at remote location could direct a surgical robot to perform an open heart surgery. but the approaches option and decision will be left to experience and wisdom of the doctor not the robot. what do you think of machines if they will make humans less or more in the field? machines will push human professionals up the skillset ladder into uniquely human skills such as creativity, social abilities, empathy, and sense-making, which machines cannot automate. as a result, machines will make the workplace more, not less for humans. however, humans have to learn new skills throughout their lives. it is said that in the future 80% of process-oriented tasks will be done by machines. quantitative reasoning tasks will be done approximately 50% by humans and 50% by machines, while humans will continue to do more than 80% of cross-functional reasoning tasks. according to harvard research machines, algorithms can read diagnostic scans with 92% accuracy. humans can do it with 96% accuracy. together, it will be 99% accurate. human-machine collaboration enables companies to interact with employees and customers in the novel, more effective ways. smart machines are helping humans to expand their abilities in three ways. they can amplify our cognitive strengths; interact with customers and employees to free us from higher-level tasks, and embody human skills to extend our physical capabilities. in the research, it was found that 1,500 companies achieve the most significant performance improvement when humans and machines work together. new machine systems have beyond-human cognitive abilities, which many of us fear could potentially dehumanize the future of work. machines will indeed automate most repetitive and physical tasks, and part of quantitative tasks such as programming and even data science. according to d.e shaw group and professor at the university of washington, explained that, as a result of machines, there will be more demand for existing jobs, and new jobs will be created that are unimaginable today. this is similar to how we couldn’t imagine a web app developer decades ago, and now millions make a living doing that today. machines are good at doing tasks with speed, precision, and accuracy. but machines are not very good at responding to unknown situations or making judgments. that part will be left to humans. hence, the need for both humans and machines will be there in the future. humans and machines have divergent skill sets that, when combined can transform the way we work. machines have already infiltrated every aspect of our lives, and we must learn to live with them. in the future, human workers will interact more closely with humans. blackcoffer insights 29: vachika sharma, anand english medium school tagsaiautomationbig datahuman intelligencemachine learningmanwork previous articleios mobile applications portfolionext articlewill machine replace the human in the future of work? ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways most popular insights impact of ai in health and medicine february 11, 2021 impact of indian economy due to covid-19 april 12, 2020 turning the professional networking data into actionable insights october 6, 2020 integration of video-conferencing data to the existing web app september 15, 2022 load more recommended insights what patients like and dislike about telemedicine? political intelligence database is big data the same as ai? how to increase social media engagement for marketers? latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 