 gender diversity and equality in the tech industry - blackcoffer insights sign in our success stories banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare infrastructure & real estate it lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain telecom what we do banking, financials, securities, and insurance energy entertainment fast moving consumer goods government & think tanks healthcare hospitality infrastructure & real estate it services lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place news & media production & manufacturing research & academia retail & supply chain what we think automobiles & components bfsi asset and portfolio banks capital markets derivatives and securities diversified financials finance & accounting insurance securities and capital markets capital goods commercial & professional services consumer discretionary consumer durables & apparel consumer services consumer staples food & staples retailing food, beverage & tobacco household & personal products data science analytics artificial intelligence big data business analytics data visualization internet of things machine learning statistics energy dataoil how to analytics application development artificial intelligence business analytics example optimization projects software development source code audit statistics web & mobile app development schedule demo contact sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. friday, april 12, 2024 sign in / join our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube our success stories allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcareinfrastructure & real estateitlifestyle, ecommerce & online market placeproduction & manufacturingresearch & academia our success stories efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 our success stories streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 our success stories efficient data integration and user-friendly interface development: navigating challenges in web application deployment march 17, 2024 our success stories effective management of social media data extraction: strategies for authentication, security, and reliability march 17, 2024 what we do allbanking, financials, securities, and insuranceenergyentertainmentfast moving consumer goodsgovernment & think tankshealthcarehospitalityinfrastructure & real estateit serviceslifestyle, ecommerce & online market placenews & media what we do ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 what we do methodology for etl discovery tool using llma, openai, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do methodology for database discovery tool using openai, llma, langchain february 27, 2024 what we do chatbot using voiceflow february 15, 2024 what we think allautomobiles & componentsbfsiasset and portfoliobankscapital marketsderivatives and securitiesdiversified financialsfinance & accountinginsurancesecurities and capital marketscapital goods what we think rising it cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. august 24, 2023 what we think rising it cities and their impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life in future august 18, 2023 what we think internet demand’s evolution, communication impact, and 2035’s alternative pathways august 18, 2023 what we think rise of cybercrime and its effect in upcoming future august 18, 2023 how to allanalyticsapplication developmentartificial intelligencebusiness analyticsexampleoptimizationprojectssoftware developmentsource code auditstatisticsweb & mobile app development what we do ai/ml and predictive modeling february 3, 2022 blackcoffer solution for contact centre problems april 26, 2021 how to how to setup custom domain for google app engine application? february 13, 2021 how to code review checklist april 10, 2020 schedule demo contact search home what we think gender diversity and equality in the tech industry blackcofferbfsicapital marketswhat we think gender diversity and equality in the tech industry by ajay bidyarthy - august 20, 2020 17513 gender diversity is an equal representation of all genders in workplaces. one of the most important sectors where there is under-representation of gender diversity is the technological industry. gender diversity means you have an equal opportunity which is not limited by gender. but, the true reality is gender diversity is a far outcry in the world. gender diversity isn’t a new topic but an old and global phenomenon and technology industry is not a stranger to it. women are often underrepresented in the technology sector. to understand the gap, let’s look at some statistics. the percentage of women employed across all job sectors in the us has grown to be 47%. out of 47%. 34% belong to the top 5 technology companies (amazon, apple, facebook, google, and microsoft). women software engineer hires have only increased 2% over the last 20 years 50% of women said they have experienced gender discrimination at work. only 37% of tech startups have at least one woman on the board of directors. the ratio of men to women in engineering is 5:1. 25.5% of google’s leaders on a global scale are women. even in the tech conference organizations, there were fewer female keynote speakers than male speakers. eight percent to 17 percent of gay and transgender workers report being passed over for a job or fired because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. globally, women only earn 77 cents to the dollar when compared to men. according to a mckinsey global institute report, if women were to play an identical role in labor markets to that of men, as much as $28 trillion, or 26%, could be added to the global annual gdp by 2025. according to unesco, over 2.7 billion women are legally restricted from having the same choice of jobs as men. and women’s labor force participation rate is 48.5 % compared to a rate of 75% for men. after looking at these staggering numbers, we see how biased gender diversity is even in the technological sector. need of the hour with rapid industrialization and education about the importance of rights, gender diversity is very important in today’s world. gender equality represents a society that has lesser violence and provides a safer world for everyone. it is also directly proportional to sustainable development and ensures human rights to everyone. as today’s markets are increasing along with customers’ preferences, to understand customer profiles and build products we need gender diversity in our organizations. equal representation helps in a better decision-making process for a positive impact. men and women invest back into their families and having gender equality and diversity helps build values into families and households. empowering individuals not only help themselves but also the economy of the nations. gender equality and diversity should be built into organizations’ beliefs and values. https://www.statista.com/chart/4467/female-employees-at-tech-companies/ global gender gap report (2017) why is this happening? perception: if we see the word “gender”, it is a socially constructed definition. and this definition changes as per different cultural norms. in a much broader term, our society is also not aware of the concept of binary and non-binary gender, which includes queer, trans, and intersex individuals as well. the socially acceptable thing is to have gender expressions as per our gender identity. so, when it comes to choosing their career, people tend to choose a job role that gives them higher social belongingness. e.g. we see more women(as compared to men) in nursing careers as it requires more feminine qualities. there are different versions of this perception: which we can see either in the society(in terms of socially assigned gender roles) or in the workplace(in the form of gender discrimination, stereotypical thinking, sexism, etc.). e.g. as per their assigned roles in society, women are most likely to take care of their family and children, and this affects their income and career growth. the motherhood penalty is a term defined by sociologists which states about the inverse correlation between income level and the number of children, i.e. there is also an income difference between a mother and a non-mother employee. as per oecd data(2012), there is a 7% reduction in wages for women per child. lack of economic opportunities: even in the tech industry, women are paid less than men. as per ilo data(2019), on average women are paid 20% less than men worldwide. even when it comes to promotion, men are preferred more. it is to be noted that the numbers are even worse when there is intersectionality involved. e.g., a transgender woman will be paid less than a white woman and so on. as per the national centre for transgender equality, one out of two transgender people faces adverse effects: including 23% were denied a promotion, 44% were passed over for a particular job position and 26% are fired from their workplace just because they are transgender. ways to improve gender diversity: we can improve this scenario from the perspective of different stakeholders who are involved. for society : creating tech awareness from school level: as per the hdr report( 2017), no. of boys pursuing stem program is 97% higher than girls. one way to improve this is to introduce more strong role models to advocate for this issue. minority gender communities should be aware of the multiple job opportunities and career growth available in this field. these job roles are not even gender-specific anymore. for developing countries like india, stem scholarship programs can be introduced from the secondary education level. address bias/stereotypes: it is to be noted that perceptions, stereotypes, and biases are not just something we learn in school but our upbringing also creates these, the things we watch, listen, and read daily. so, it also becomes the duty of the society to create a more inclusive environment. e.g. a more privileged person should fight for the fundamental right of the less empowered or less privileged person in society. there should be active encouragement from parents, teachers, and educators for students in stem programs regardless of their gender identity. for companies: to promote gender diversity in the workplace, companies need to focus on three things: unbiased recruitment policies: generally, there is a lot of unconscious bias and prejudices when hiring women, trans, intersex, and queer individuals. there needs to be a diversity and inclusivity team in the hr itself that addresses these issues. a blind recruitment drive can be conducted where there is no need to mention gender in any of the documents. having structured questions during the interview might help to remove any unconscious biases. diversity sensitivity training: workplace policies need to create a company image that hires everyone irrespective of their gender identity and can even keep it optional in all the job formalities and documents. conducting proper sensitivity training to employees is essential as they need to use correct pronoun/gender-neutral language. not just sensitivity training, strong workplace policies need to be in place which deal with any form of harassment or gender discrimination. to create accountability and transparency in their process, companies can also share diversity and inclusivity company data. retention policies: creating mentorship models: have a mentorship program in the workplace that advocates for women, trans, intersex, and non-binary individuals as leaders and encourages role models within this community. need to promote diversity in the workplace via proper workplace policies and legal guidelines(e.g. conducting mandatory sensitization training for all employees or framing zero-tolerance policies.) including proper maternity leaves, child care facilities, and flexibility of working hours/remote working arrangements can be helpful for minority gender in keeping their work-life balance. develop support programs for these communities who are joining after maternity leave. it might be in terms of psychiatric or mentorship support. increase pay parities: it can be done in the following ways: create flexibility in job roles so that women can move on to higher positions. build an inclusive workplace that supports pay parity— no salary difference based on gender for the same job roles. create a transparent performance review process and ensure that there are no unconscious biases during the recruitment process. doing a pay review within the organization to check how much pay difference exists before making framing policies. lastly, there needs to be proper government policies in place which provide a constitutional or legal framework starting from the basic education level. it may begin from increasing the gross enrollment rates of all students in schools (irrespective of their gender identity) for developing countries( like india) to have proper compensation policies in the workplace(as similar to what states like california, new york has adopted) to ensure pay parity. blackcoffer insights 19: sushmitha & sujatha, iim kozhikode previous articlehow to overcome your fear of making mistakes?next articleglobal financial crisis 2008 causes/effects and its solution ajay bidyarthy related articlesmore from author ai bot audio to audio efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application most popular insights management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services december 2, 2020 turning the professional networking data into actionable insights october 6, 2020 design and develop mlops framework for data-centric ai august 5, 2023 how big data & analytics is helping fashion e-tailers to capture... march 24, 2018 load more recommended insights data integration and big data performance using elasticsearch coronavirus disease (covid-19) effect: the impact and role of mass media... data management for a political saas application automated orthopedic case report generation: harnessing web scraping and ai integration latest insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights ai bot audio to audio april 3, 2024 efficient supply chain assessment: overcoming technical hurdles for web application development march 17, 2024 streamlined integration: interactive brokers api with python for desktop trading application march 17, 2024 popular insights categoryour success stories197what we think178blackcoffer149it78artificial intelligence53healthcare52big data44lifestyle, ecommerce & online market place44 about us we provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com follow us facebooklinkedintwitteryoutube © all right reserved, blackcoffer(opc) pvt. ltd our success stories what we do what we think how to schedule demo contact 